Image source, An Garda Síochána Image caption, Hugh Kelly volition buried pursuing a ceremonial astatine St Michael's Church successful Creeslough

The ceremonial is owed to instrumentality spot for the oldest unfortunate of past Friday's detonation successful Creeslough, County Donegal.

Hugh Kelly, 59, was 1 of 10 radical to dice the blast astatine the work presumption successful the village.

Also known arsenic Hughie, helium was a husbandman from the Doe Point country and was besides progressive successful operation work.

Like galore of the different victims, his ceremonial Mass volition instrumentality spot astatine St Michael's Church successful Creeslough.

He volition beryllium buried astatine Doe Cemetery, conscionable a fewer kilometres from the village, pursuing the work astatine 11:00 section clip connected Friday.

The funerals of 7 of those who died successful the immense detonation person already taken spot - the victims included a five-year-old miss and her father, a pistillate and her 13-year-old lad and 2 teenagers.

The blast ripped done the Applegreen work presumption conscionable aft 15:20 past Friday successful an incidental that is being treated by constabulary arsenic tragic accident.

On Thursday, the ceremonial of 14-year-old Leona Harper took spot successful Ramelton. She had been picking up an crystal pick successful the store erstwhile the detonation happened.

Fr Michael Carney told mourners astatine St Mary's Church that though Leona's clip connected this world was "too short" she lived beingness to the full.

"She has made her unsocial contribution, near her imprint and contributed to the lives of those she loved, lived and laughed with."

The ceremonial besides took spot successful Creeslough connected Thursday of Martina Martina, who was described by the section clergyman arsenic "working astatine the bosom of the community" .

She was moving successful the work station.

Fr John Joe Duffy said Martina was "so good loved, truthful good liked" and had been "doing what she loved" erstwhile the calamity happened.

Representatives of the Irish president, the taoiseach (Irish premier minister) and exigency services were contiguous astatine some services.

Fr Duffy said the assemblage had showed large spot to enactment radical done caller days.

"Creeslough is simply a village, yes, a tiny village, but it is present much than conscionable that," helium explained.

"It is present a connection for determination, for resolve, and for togetherness."

On Tuesday, ceremonial services were held astatine St Michael's Church successful the colony for Jessica Gallagher, 24, and 49-year-old Martin McGill.

James O'Flaherty, Catherine O'Donnell and her 13-year-old lad James Monaghan were buried connected Wednesday.