Country Asia/Pacific Region Europe Andorra United Arab Emirates Afghanistan Antigua and Barbuda Anguilla Albania Armenia Curacao Angola Antarctica Argentina American Samoa Austria Australia Aruba Azerbaijan Bosnia and Herzegovina Barbados Bangladesh Belgium Burkina Faso Bulgaria Bahrain Burundi Benin Bermuda Brunei Darussalam Bolivia Brazil Bahamas Bhutan Bouvet Island Botswana Belarus Belize Canada Cocos (Keeling) Islands Congo, The Democratic Republic of the Central African Republic Congo Switzerland Cote D'Ivoire Cook Islands Chile Cameroon China Colombia Costa Rica Cuba Cape Verde Christmas Island Cyprus Czech Republic Germany Djibouti Denmark Dominica Dominican Republic Algeria Ecuador Estonia Egypt Western Sahara Eritrea Spain Ethiopia Finland Fiji Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Micronesia, Federated States of Faroe Islands France Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Gabon United Kingdom Grenada Georgia French Guiana Ghana Gibraltar Greenland Gambia Guinea Guadeloupe Equatorial Guinea Greece South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Guatemala Guam Guinea-Bissau Guyana Hong Kong Heard Island and McDonald Islands Honduras Croatia Haiti Hungary Indonesia Ireland Israel India British Indian Ocean Territory Iraq Iran, Islamic Republic of Iceland Italy Jamaica Jordan Japan Kenya Kyrgyzstan Cambodia Kiribati Comoros Saint Kitts and Nevis Korea, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Cayman Islands Kazakhstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Saint Lucia Liechtenstein Sri Lanka Liberia Lesotho Lithuania Luxembourg Latvia Libya Morocco Monaco Moldova, Republic of Madagascar Marshall Islands Macedonia Mali Myanmar Mongolia Macau Northern Mariana Islands Martinique Mauritania Montserrat Malta Mauritius Maldives Malawi Mexico Malaysia Mozambique Namibia New Caledonia Niger Norfolk Island Nigeria Nicaragua Netherlands Norway Nepal Nauru Niue New Zealand Oman Panama Peru French Polynesia Papua New Guinea Philippines Pakistan Poland Saint Pierre and Miquelon Pitcairn Islands Puerto Rico Palestinian Territory Portugal Palau Paraguay Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saudi Arabia Solomon Islands Seychelles Sudan Sweden Singapore Saint Helena Slovenia Svalbard and Jan Mayen Slovakia Sierra Leone San Marino Senegal Somalia Suriname Sao Tome and Principe El Salvador Syrian Arab Republic Swaziland Turks and Caicos Islands Chad French Southern Territories Togo Thailand Tajikistan Tokelau Turkmenistan Tunisia Tonga Timor-Leste Turkey Trinidad and Tobago Tuvalu Taiwan Tanzania, United Republic of Ukraine Uganda United States Minor Outlying Islands United States Uruguay Uzbekistan Holy See (Vatican City State) Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Venezuela Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Vietnam Vanuatu Wallis and Futuna Samoa Yemen Mayotte Serbia South Africa Zambia Montenegro Zimbabwe Anonymous Proxy Satellite Provider Other Aland Islands Guernsey Isle of Man Jersey Saint Barthelemy Saint Martin Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba

She just said they were previously unregistered to vote, of course they voted for beto.

Ah, man! I have no doubt her pelvic floor is in spasms too.Imagine spooning her while entirely motionless, buried deep inside as she just vibrates against you, her insides clamping down on your dick repeatedly, her exhausted but unable to control the organs forced upon her by her new superpower of a medical condition brought on by a simple vaccine that also saves the lives of those around her!Hot. Would cum buckets.

the point is that only Ottawa deals with political issues on a national basis. So when the people have strong disagreement with the political powers there is only one location in the nation that citizens can best concentrate their natural right to peaceful assembly.

what if it isnt kosher? And where does Biden stand in the ranking?

Depends on if the glizzly in question is kosher. If so, trump wins hands down.

You can either spend your time noticing things or arguing about them but not both

Keep in mind that the only reason this board hasn't been completely shutdown by the feds is that it's a fed asset. It's a honeypot for the altright and anti-establishment republicans.

I love how you morons tried to squeeze that one in there. It's the same retard-tier shit as flat earth theory.

If that were true you’d never be able to explain planets retrograde in the sky at night. The only way they could be lying about our model is if the whole giant ice ball earth with this being a melted pocket was true (which it’s not)

Is there any place other than this to discuss politics without censorship or bullshit? This place is no longer reliable considering the amount of 1pbtid slide threads, idiots responding to them and the psyops that make anyone who questions the narrative look like schizos or retards (flat earth threads). Anyone got any suggestions?

Democracy was never the goal. It's a method for achieving a republic.NoVa and MD shouldn't be allowed to vote either.

Okay, you can do that, then we can break up New York California and Texas into a few more States....Conservatives will provide the new boundaries. It's for the best.

>Explain to me why DC shouldn't be a state when it has more people than Wyoming and Vermont

Explain to me why DC shouldn't be a state when it has more people than Wyoming and Vermont

This is why foreigners should stay away from international conflicts that don't directly involve them. It's also why Nation States shouldn't seek support. If you can't start or sustain a fight with what you've got, you need to wait until you can.