Spencer LevyThe American workplace has been changing, not just in terms of design and technology innovations, but also in terms of people. Today's workforce includes a wider age range and greater ethnic diversity than ever. And real estate is at the center of everything that comes together. On this episode, we explore the office as a multigenerational melting pot with members of CBRE’s Hispanic employee networking group, also known as HOLA, voices from one of the nation's fastest growing cultural forces.Nellie CruzMy parents, for example, they risked their lives coming here without knowing how to speak a word of English. Crossing the border, slaving away in 100 degree heat for decades. And ultimately, they built their very own successful business. So why not carry on that legacy of hard work and determination?Spencer LevyThat's Nellie Cruz, a member of Generation Z and the youngest of our guests on this show. Specializing in landlord and occupier representation, Nellie is part of CBRE’s Office Advisory Team in her hometown of Sacramento.Pedro NiñoAs it relates to my heritage, early in my career, I found a way to really leverage my differences, right, my strengths.Spencer LevyAnd that's Pedro Niño, a proud millennial who was Vice President and Head of Industrial Research at Clarion Partners, a firm with more than $80 billion of assets under management. Pedro began his real estate career with CBRE back in 2013. Now he joins us from Clarion’s office in Dallas. And our final panelist is its elder statesman, Armando Nuñez. Armando is a New York based Senior Vice President and CBRE’s Global Corporate Services Group and a Gen Xer, like me, who's currently in his 30th year at the company.Armando NuñezWhen you're running cross countries like, you know, the worst thing you can do is say, o h, I feel tired. You know, it's more about taking on more. And I think that sort of approach that I got from my father was how I approach real estate.Spencer LevyAnd as an added bonus, we hear from some other important voices as well, namely, a remote audience from HOLA, who we invited for a behind the scenes experience of the show.HOLA ModeratorBienvenidos a todos.Spencer LevyThey sent in some great questions of their own, and we get to as many as possible during our time on the air. Coming up, personal experiences and advice for navigating a career in an ever evolving business landscape. A special episode to commemorate Hispanic Heritage Month with the voices of generations in the workplace. I'm Spencer Levy, and that's right now on The Weekly Take.Spencer LevyWelcome to The Weekly Take. And this week, I'm delighted to be celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month with three great leaders within our industry. First, Pedro Niño, Pedro, thanks for joining the show.Pedro NiñoHola Spencer. Un fuerte abrazo a todos mis amigos de CBRE.Spencer LevyThank you, Pedro. And then we have our colleague, Nellie Cruz. Nellie, thanks for joining the show.Nellie CruzHi, everyone. I'm very excited to be here. Thank you for having me.Spencer LevyDelighted to have you, Nelly. And then Armando Nuñez, thanks for joining the show.Armando NuñezGreat to be here. Awesome to see so many folks on this call.Spencer LevyTerrific. Hello to my friends at HOLA, and we're going to have a lot of fun today. But let's start with the nuts and bolts of just, office in the workplace. Pedro, you're back in the office. How's it going?Pedro NiñoI am in the office today, and I would say that I'm probably regular, about four days a week. And I think that the last two years, if there's something we've learned, is that we can be effective when working remotely. Hybrid has been an experiment that we've all tested, and I think we've come away with great takeaways in how to make it work. At the same time, I truly do believe that being on the sort of lower end to the mid- end of my career, I really do believe that being visible, being present is one of the reasons why I come in more than it's actually required at the moment. Being present is important for establishing your personal brand, right? For collaborating, for working with my team, for being more visible, etc.. And related to that, I'll share a funny story, or just a story that actually happened to me. About a year ago, I poked my head into our office before we were all coming in more frequently because I had to pick up something from my desk. And while doing that, I ran into a senior colleague that actually said to me, Hey, now that you're back at work, I've been wanting to meet with you regarding something. And that just absolutely exploded my mind because with an industrial, we've been extremely busy, certainly over the last cycle, but over the last couple of years. So I truly believe that face to faces in offices is tremendously important.Spencer LevyNellie, I would love to get your experience as well about, are you in the office today, and how's it been going, getting back there?Nellie CruzYeah, I have to agree with Pedro. I am also in the office about 4 to 5 days a week. I like to say that I'm a little bit religious to it because if it wasn't for the office, I wouldn't have all the opportunities that I had. I started in late 2018 and the actual reason I started was I had an interest in commercial real estate, I had an interest in CBRE. And one day I decided I'm just going to walk into our downtown Sacramento office and see if there are any job opportunities available. Had the office been closed, that wouldn't have been a possibility. So one day I walked in and I handed my resume over and they said, somebody's here and they're willing to meet with you right now. And he said, well, that's great. I'd love to. So I was interviewed on the spot, and then I was invited to be interviewed again two times after that, and ultimately was hired on into our research department where I met so many fantastic people, was there for a year, and then I was recruited onto our office leasing and sales team in our office. And I just think if it wasn't for those opportunities to see everybody face to face and essentially I cold- called my way into my dream career, I wouldn't be here today. I think I would be backtracked. I think I would be delayed in what my goals were.Spencer LevyArmando, what's been your experience for the same thing, getting back to the office?Armando NuñezFor me, the pressure was on our corporate leaders to communicate with us while we're remote. So I really think during this pandemic, the communication and the knowledge sharing that's coming in from CBRE and leaders and even, you know, your Weekly Take, Spencer, they've been fantastic. I feel like I've learned so much more during this and I've been here 30 years. So it's always great to see how our corporate leaders have stepped up in knowledge sharing.Spencer LevySo let's now talk generationally, and let’s start with you Nellie. What a wonderful story of how you got here. But you are at the beginning of your career. How does somebody at the beginning of their career deal with what we're dealing with today, the post-pandemic era? And what advice would you give people that are in your career cohort?Nellie CruzGosh, the one thing I would say was, it would be to always pursue your dreams and aspirations without hesitation, because commercial real estate is a lot of learning and experience as any career is. But just take the chance. Our parents, speaking on behalf of the Hispanic community in a diverse communities or past generations, they came to this country for a better future for themselves and for their children, and we shouldn't take that for granted. My parents, for example, they risked their lives coming here without knowing how to speak a word of English, crossing the border, slaving away in 100 degree heat for decades. And ultimately they built their very own successful business. So why not carry on that legacy of hard work and determination? We have all the opportunities laid out in front of us, and it's up to us to take the initiative and take those on and supersede all the expectations that have been pre- set.Spencer LevyPedro, as you stated, you are a little bit more advanced in your career than Nellie. I'm not going to go so far to say mid-career, because even though Armando and I are about the same vintage, I'm still rocking and rolling for another 20, 30 years, man. But nevertheless, since we are classifying you as mid-career, how do you see your generation, your stage of your career and advice you would give others?Pedro NiñoI’ll start with the advice part. I would say there's probably two points of advice that I would want give myself and give future generation of Hispanics that are looking to do potentially the same thing that I'm doing now. The first one is, most important is, get yourself a mentor. Get yourself a mentor early in your career. I've had several mentors at different stages of my careers that have helped me grow both professionally and personally. And having someone in your corner that can give you advice, that can give you guidance, and sometimes criticism, that can walk you back or tell you, hey, you're doing something wrong. That could be very important. You know, when I first started my career, I started as a research coordinator. And at the time, I was sort of most entry level within research, within the team, but I still built the courage to ask one of our senior directors if they could be my mentor. And when I moved to San Antonio, I did the same with a senior industrial broker. And to this day, I've benefited so much from our relationships and what we've learned together. And then the second part of that is, don't be afraid. Don't be afraid to put yourself in uncomfortable situations, because those situations will help you grow. You know, raise your hand to participate in a bigger project, sit in big, important meetings, even if you're the only Hispanic there, right. And if you get stuck doing something you don't like, do it and do it well. And chances are if you do it very well, you won't do it for long.Spencer LevyArmando, would love to get your perspective and as I said, you may be considered the later in your career person, but I'm telling you, we're just warming up, right, Armando?Armando NuñezI am in my seventh inning stretch right now, but for me, I think the voice of, if I could say, my generation, really, if I had to share some advice, would be the folks that have been here for a while, I think they have a lot of wisdom and more importantly, a lot of contacts. And I think that's important that we share those as we develop, because there's a lot of young people that I get involved with and being a leader of the Hispanic Scholarship Fund and also leading HOLA has been tremendous. And I can share that wisdom and the knowledge because I don't think too much has changed over the years in terms of the fundamentals. I think our research has gotten better. Our tools to get that research has been better. So I think that's all good. But in terms of making sure you reach out to the folks that have been there and have experience, I think that's important.Spencer LevyLet me dig into that just a little bit deeper, Armando. How would you recommend that people approach somebody that they don't really know that well, but has that experience?Armando NuñezWell, I think it's in your office. It's the person sitting right next to you, right. And that's establishing meaningful relationships. And, you know, we talk about mentors, and some of my mentors have been a little bit more casual in nature, but they go back to my cross-country coach in high school who, you know, his slogan was work stuff for winning, and he was an older man that had a lot of experience and had a lot of life. And that just all translates to me is hard work, self sufficiency and optimism. I think that's important and you can only get it for someone that's been around for a while.Spencer LevyNow let's shift and we're starting to get some questions in from the audience and keep them coming, folks here. First question comes in here from Liz Atlee. I appreciate Liz breaking the ice, but this is to you Nellie. Nellie, as a Latina woman, how did you overcome the cultural bias of being the, quote, quiet woman. La más quieta, la más bonita.Nellie CruzLa más quieta! Great question. Our culture is for generations and still today has to be one of the most conservative ones. Our parents were brought up with the ideals that the women have to be in the household and they have to be well-behaved, which is all good. And it teaches you morals and it teaches you how to be a great person, but I largely attribute how I was able to get outside of that box of being the quiet one, thanks to my own mom. She was the leader of our family and she just always got out there and would negotiate with all of the people that she'd be negotiating with, in part because of their business, and she'd be leading the conversation the entire time. Gosh, I wasn't even ten years old. I was probably between five and ten years old when she picked me up from school and we'd go door to door and drop off brochures of their business in order to gain new clients. I think her example really broke out of that cultural bias and she was never afraid to have those obstacles.Spencer LevyWell, that's great. To this day, I take my kids to the office. I take my daughter to several events. I've taken my son to several events. I think it's just a wonderful experience. So Pedro, playing on the same theme of cultural or other differences with a Hispanic background. Has that changed your experience in the workplace?Pedro NiñoYeah. You know, as it relates to my heritage, early in my career, I found a way to really leverage my differences right by strengths. And that was one of those was being bilingual, right. I was working in an office in the US, in El Paso, Texas, with a great team, but we'd also do business quite a bit with clients and folks that were, you know, have portfolios down in the US but also in Mexico. So what I did is I leveraged some of that and what I did is even early in my career I was able to get in front of high profile institutional clients. Right. And at the same time, I was working with leadership in Latin America to help elevate the quality of reporting, because standards in Latin America were slightly different than they were in the U.S. at the time, and getting involved with head of research for Latin America, etc., that just helped really propel my career and again, just being able to leverage those differences. On the flip side, because obviously some of these conversations lead to maybe less comfortable conversations, right? I mean, I don't think I've ever been or felt disadvantaged by being Hispanic. I've been fortunate enough to be surrounded by good leaders and good teams. And because of that, I don't think I've ever felt like my ethnicity was a disadvantage, and I've been fortunate to do that. I mean, the reality is, as an industry, we're lacking right now, only 6% of commercial listing professionals are Hispanic. Right? Only 3% are senior leaders. And within that, Hispanic women only make up 1% of leaders in the industry as well. So maybe those that may follow may not be as fortunate as I am. But from my perspective, I was able to learn how to leverage my differences, and I was able to again surround myself with a great team that was instrumental in my success.Armando NuñezI would say that the opportunities now for Latinos within real estate have never been better, and I think we're seeing that the numbers that are being put out, that the growth is there, the opportunity for growth is there. So that means after Latino population, we morph into what we have in the United States. It's only an opportunity for growth. And I see as our numbers, as Pedro pointed out they’re low right now. But that to me just means there's a lot of potential. All I see is a graph going up. So I think that's important. And I think some of these mentorships that you had early in your career are similar to Pedro. I was doing projects internationally as well, and just being a bilingual led me to do, you know, a project in Mexico, led me to do projects across the globe as well. That's all been part of the leverage of being a Latino in real estate.Spencer LevyLet's now go to another question that came in from somebody who didn't identify themselves. But it's also to you, Nellie. It says, Nellie, do you find yourself toning down your Latin dad, I guess is the word, in the workplace? What's your point of view?Nellie CruzI myself, I do not tone it down at all. And everybody who works in my office and everybody who's in the industry that I've collaborated with, I think they know the same. I'm extremely, extremely proud of where I come from, and I will speak in Spanish during the day. I'll have calls in Spanish with clients that don't speak English. And I'm very vocal about my desire to help the next generation of Latinos that don't necessarily have the guidance and education and don't have the knowledge of what commercial real estate is. But no, I don't tone it down.Spencer LevyI think that's a great example of using your background rather than trying to conform to whatever box people perceive you to want to be in. You thrive by being you. And that's a terrific story. But I think you also ask the question, I'm going to turn this one to Armando. Has that changed? Is that a new thing in the workplace? Because, Armando, you've obviously been in the workplace longer. Did you ever have a different way of approaching your background in the workplace? Did you ever tone it down?Armando NuñezNow I don't think so. And I take an old expression that I got from my father, which was and I'm sure it can be translated different ways, but it's “no te rajas.” – which means basically don't back down. And it's always been my approach. Even as a runner when you're running cross country it's like, you know, the worst thing you can do is say, oh, I feel tired. You know, it's more about taking on more. And I think that sort of approach that I got from my father was how I approach real estate. And it didn't change from early on is, you know, don't back down. Always try to look for Yes. And that's part of the key of being a broker is, you know, when you saw a deal, how do you make that thing happen?Pedro Niño [00:17:35] I've always tried to carry myself in a very confident manner as much as I can, very present, you know, and I, I get this from my mother and my brother. My mother, as Nellie said with her parents, despite language barriers and some impediments, she was a salesperson, and despite that language barrier, my mom could sell water to a well, she just did it so well. She did competently and she did it with a very strong presence. And my brother actually, even though he's younger than me, he studied theater. And when I would go see him in his plays, one thing that I learned from an early on is that you would project his presence, he would talk loudly, he would have a high chest. And I always found that extremely, extremely impressive. And to be able to do it in front of masses, that was just always so impressive to me and I always try to emulate that.Spencer LevyAnother question came in and I’m just going to paraphrase it. It really comes down to real or perceived discrimination that you may or may not have faced in the workplace. Maybe we'll start with you Nellie. Any point of view on that?Nellie CruzI can't name a time that I've felt that way in the last four years that I've been here, definitely growing up and in different circumstances. But I just find that the people that I work with and just where we are in the world today and this nation today in California specifically being such a diverse and has a very high population of Hispanic people, I'm very sensitive to that, very respectful more than anything. And that's how we should be treated with maximum respect and equality.Pedro NiñoFortunately, we’re surrounded by good people, at least, you know, in the last ten years and I've been in, you know, to my capacity, I've been in dozens of meetings where I am the only Hispanic in a meeting of 30, right. Or we're visiting markets where I’m the only Hispanic or people don't know how to pronounce my name. They say something way out of whack, right. Now I've been in situations where there's two Hispanics in the room and they get our names mixed up, right? I've had experiences where it's been apparent that I'm the only Hispanic, but I've never experienced any type of prejudice directly, luckily and fortunately have not. But if I were to, I would diffuse the situation as quickly, I could walk away from it and then just like my work speaks for itself.Spencer LevyArmando, any different perspective?Armando NuñezNo, I think it's similar along those lines. I do recall being called there was a Hispanic person in my office prior to my arrival and his name was Fernando. So I was Fernando for at least a good, you know, two years. So I understood that issue. But for me, where I went to high school, I went to college. I always joke around that there were three Latinos in our high school out of, you know, 4000 students. And it was my sister, my brother and myself. So I definitely had a slightly different experience in trying to assimilate and work with others.Spencer LevySo we got another question in. And thank you, Enrique Garcia in New Orleans for this question. The question: My team, PJM project management, works remotely and we don't have an office in New Orleans which has made mentor and training challenging. So we're talking a lot about mentoring, we're talking a lot about helping others. But what do you do, if not face to face? And we certainly dealt with that. And quite gently, all four of us are sitting in different places as we do this podcast. So Nellie, what's been your experience and what advice would you give on how to mentor, train, work with others remotely?Nellie CruzGreat question. First of all, I would try to determine where they are geographically, because if they are close by and they are willing to meet outside of the office or outside of their home office, then why not get together and go do a lunch or go to a happy hour? Why not try to do some kind of teambuilding activity outside of the office? Now, if that's not possible, pre team building activities don't just have a zoom call to discuss only business points and business matters. Have a Zoom call to get to know each other, to ask each other questions, and do some kind of team building activity and have those on a regular basis. Because I think those types of activities, they probably fall off the radar. You do them once a quarter, once a year, but you're not necessarily collaborating with your team. So make it a weekly activity to have a 15 minute catch up call with each of those individuals and maybe a 30 minute group chat weekly, even monthly if time permits. But again, it's just about taking the initiative to get everyone together because they will find the value in that so much after they have those interactions with you.Pedro NiñoI've tried to keep contact and I did a better job at it. Early on when I moved to San Antonio, one of my mentors was in El Paso and obviously distance was a factor there. We couldn't do face to face, but we kept recurring sort of call. We would call each other, have conversations, things of that sort. So you could do that. But even when in person, right? Well, first of all, I should say you can have more than one mentor, right? It doesn't have to be just 1. That's the way it is. So when I found a second mentor in San Antonio, it doesn't have to be in a formal physical setting. Sometimes we would go to lunch, right? And we would have conversations. Sometimes we would go to our building, or something to that effect. It doesn't have to be like, Hey, can you get me one hour of your time in the office where you can talk? You would do that often as well. It doesn't have to be in a structured physical office setting. I mean, mentoring, learning could take place virtually anywhere.Spencer LevySo since the title of today's episode is Generations in the Workplace, I'm not going to suggest for a moment, Armando, that I am less technologically savvy than other generations. But every time something goes wrong in my house, I bring in my 17 year old son because I have not a chance of doing anything technologically at all complex in my house. But nevertheless, I'm from a more experienced generation that didn't grow up with this technology. What's your advice to people dealing with remote work?Armando NuñezIt's really finding something that you're like say, like you're reaching out to your 17 year old, right? So he's your expert. So I would put that same thing on real estate. If there's something you're trying to learn. Maybe you want to be the best at Excel. Or maybe you want to be the best at understanding real estate taxes or a 1031 exchange, whatever sort of skill set you want to achieve. Look for that expert and see if that person is willing to engage you, because I think that's, one you get the skill and second, you develop that relationship. And I think that's important going further because some of those simple questions I was asking 20 years ago, how to run a, you know, a net present value calculation, you know, that turned into a relationship now that, you know, it's free flowing. We're friends and we talk about movies instead of NPVs.Spencer LevyWhat is the most misunderstood thing? And we'll start this question with you, Armando, about people in your stage of the career. There are people that have different perceptions of people at different stages of their career. Are there any misperceptions that people had about you or your stage of your career, given where you are, Armando?Armando NuñezI would go back to what I had stated earlier, and it's about wisdom and contacts, right? And that's where you look at the older generation and know that they've been there for a reason and they've had a lot of experience and that is valuable to anyone who is going through the career so you can avoid those potholes as you advance.Pedro NiñoNow I feel like I need to step up and speak for my comrades. Obviously, I'm a mid-career millennial, right. And millennials have long had a misconception of being entitled and maybe sometimes lazy, etc.. And Spencer, you've done tremendous research on this as well. And I agree with you. You've said in the past, right, that we're just young adults that have been conditioned differently, right. We've been put through six recessions, three of the worst since the Great Depression. So we've had to reset. A couple of times we've had to delay household formation. But we're getting there. We're learning how to be adults. We like to wear comfortable shoes to work. And sure, sometimes we wear headphones when we work from the office for probably listening to The Weekly Take podcast, but we'll gladly take them out and have conversations. We're just misunderstood. We're just young adults and we're learning. We're learning from everybody. We're learning from you.Nellie CruzMine has to be very similar to Pedro's. I think that we have similar perceptions, but one of the other things that I would mention would be that those that are perhaps in the first five years of our careers, we can juggle lots of responsibilities and we do have the capabilities of doing that. However, in most cases as a broker, specifically clients or whoever your team, they might defer to the person who has 20 years of experience over your opinion. So what I would suggest to those that are in their first five careers is speak up and share your ideas, because no matter what, they're going to be received and they're going be thought over and somebody is going to say, oh, wow, that's a great idea. Come sit in on this meeting. Or hey, I would love for you to present and speak about this. So that would be the one thing that I think that is misunderstood about our generation is that we are capable. We can take the reins on projects and show that we have the potential to be that executive vice president or that vice chairman the next several years.Spencer LevyWell, I agree with all of that. And I'll give you one example. When I was in Mexico City, I was pitching for the sale leaseback of a billion dollars of real estate. And we really, really wanted to win. And we had a team from Spain, we had a team from Mexico City in the pitch. And we determined that the best way to win that particular pitch was two material differences with an American pitch. Number one, we determined it was best to do it in Spanish, which is great, except I don't speak Spanish. So we brought in a interpreter from the United Nations who put an earpiece in my ear and everybody else's, and we insisted on that through the whole pitch, part A. Part B, there was a level of respect that we showed to our client, that was a little bit different than we showed in the U.S.. In the U.S., people tend to be a little bit more casual or they will all sit at the table together. There, we insisted that everybody who spoke stood up and then sat down when they stopped speaking as a sign of. But guess what, we won. And so thinking about these things, not only in the confines of what is the experience here in the U.S. and thinking about it, well, maybe it's a little different outside help win that pitch, too. So I think that that's something to be considered. So Armando would like your perspective on the same thing.Armando NuñezWell, I actually had written down as one of my notes, it is a key word, and you just hit it. It's nuances, is understanding those nuances that it makes all the difference. Understanding the difference between, you know, I think I've seen people ask questions about Hispanics versus Latin and LatinX and those kind of terms. I think that's all part of the nuance of the language. And obviously, having Latinos involved helps guide you through it. And obviously, you've had some good folks guide you through your presentation.Spencer LevySure. And I mentioned in that particular speech and by the way, we have probably three questions on this in the chat room. And thank you for all who put it, which is the use of Spanish. Nellie talked about doing it in the office. I talked about doing it in a pitch. When do you do it? When shouldn't you do it? What is the right context? Any perspective you might give there, Armando?Armando NuñezYou got to know your audience and that's what's key and understand their sensitivity to it. Because the majority of the Latinos in the United States are born here in the United States. That usually means sometimes they like their presentations in Spanish, sometimes they like it in English. So it's best to understand that.Pedro NiñoI agree with that. Understanding your audiences is important. And as I mentioned early in my career, I would leverage my bilingual status, you know, pretty early on, I would work with our folks in CBRE Mexico and Latin American teams, and that helped propel me to a larger spotlight and think, you know, highly or think more institutionally.Nellie CruzJust one thing that I would note is I can really only speak Spanish with a handful of folks that I know are Spanish speakers because same with Armando, my siblings and I were the only Hispanics at our school growing up in the Sacramento region. It's a little bit of a smaller market, but in the brokerage industry specifically, I can easily say I am the only Latina broker in the entire Sacramento region. So really speaking Spanish, I embrace it because I don't really get to do that with anyone else around here. I like to say it's loud and proud, but I take every opportunity I can to show my culture to everyone and to share that with everyone. So that's my perspective on that.Spencer LevyThat's great. So we could speak for hours because this is awesome. But I'm going to ask everybody now for their final thoughts, starting with you, Pedro. Final thoughts that you would share with folks about different generations of workers in the workplace and advice you'd give them?Pedro NiñoI think if there's something that I'd like to leave this audience with and something that I think we're only being more passionate about is diversity, right. DEI. Being, you know, diverse and inclusive and just overall diversity strengthens our industry, right. It makes us more innovative. It allows us to see the world from multiple different scopes, not just one. So it makes us more innovative and more opportune investors. And commitment starts with the top down. You need to have structured values. You have good framework, governance and measurable goals. Really passionate about that. And I'm excited to see where the industry is moving and some of the efforts that we're personally as a firm investing in as well. Very promising and that's very exciting.Spencer LevyTerrific. Armando, any final thoughts?Armando NuñezYeah. As the Hispanic population continues to grow, we make up about 20% of the US population. We got the strongholds in Los Angeles, New York, Houston, Miami and Dallas. But the places that Hispanics are growing is like D.C., Orlando, Tampa, Philly. To me, that just means in terms of real estate, there's a tremendous amount of opportunity here for Latinos. All I see is potential for growth. And I think with a company like CB and others out there trying to do the same thing there, there's a lot there for the Hispanic cohort.Spencer LevyNellie, final thoughts? We are just about out of time, but I'm going to give you the last word. Generations in the workplace and advice you give to our listeners.Nellie CruzSure. I completely agree with Armando and Pedro, I think those are great thoughts, further advice or thoughts about the workplace. I think the office is vital. It's so important to have these social interactions and not only the social interactions, but just the team collaborations. Build your teams, grow your teams. You can be so much more strategic and successful in that manner because you're able to have these conversations and not try to track people down on the phone three times a day and then never be able to contact them. Highly encourage just having a couple of days in the office at least to start just to be able to have that. And for those that are starting out in their careers, like I said from the beginning, don't be afraid. Take the chance. Take the chance on yourself. Take the chance on those that are around you. I'm sure that you're going to find great people to work with. And I think all the people that my management, my partners, they have been crucial to my success and our team's success and our offices' success. So that's what I can say about hopefully building the next generation of people that are going to be the future leaders.Spencer LevyWell, thank you, Nellie. And I want to acknowledge that several more questions came in late in the game. I got to as many as we could, but we could go on for hours with this wonderful conversation that we just had with Pedro Niño, Vice President of Clarion Partners. Pedro, thank you for joining us.Pedro NiñoThank you for having me Spencer.Spencer LevyNellie Cruz, associate at CBRE. Nellie, terrific job.Nellie CruzThank you. Thank you, Spencer. Thanks, everyone.Spencer LevyAnd then Armando Nuñez in New York City, my hometown. Armando, thank you for joining the show.Armando NuñezVery happy to be here and be part of the best Weekly Take ever.Spencer LevyFor more on the topics we discussed on our show, please visit our Website, CBRE.com/TheWeeklyTake. To our panelists, to the members of HOLA, and to all of you in our audience, we'd like to say thanks for joining us. Muchas gracias, I should add. We'll be back next week with more perspectives from the world of commercial real estate. For now, don't forget to share this show as well as subscribe, rate and review us wherever you listen. I'm Spencer Levy. Be smart. Be safe. Be well. Adios.