Jennifer Lawrence was seen on the Montauk, New York set of her new movie No Hard Feelings on Thursday.

The Oscar-winning beauty had a youthful appearance as she had a fresh tan while wearing a light blue floral print shirt with a frayed denim mini skirt and Chuck Taylor Converse sneakers while exiting a building.

The 32-year-old star was shooting a scene with two of her male costars. One was was Andrew Feldman whom she held hands with and the other was Kyle Mooney.

Hot stuff: Jennifer Lawrence was seen on the Montauk, New York set of her new movie No Hard Feelings on Thursday

Cute look: The Oscar-winning beauty had a youthful appearance as she had a fresh tan while wearing a light blue floral print shirt with a frayed denim mini skirt

Lawrence’s character smiled as she seemed to be in a sunny mood.

Her costar Andrew seemed more interested in his snack that he took bites out of than he did in his lady friend.

Andrew had on a white and gray striped shirt with beige shorts, blue socks and blue sneakers.

She has been shooting the movie in the Hamptons neighborhood of Long Island, New York for the past several weeks.

An official description of the film has not yet been released.

But Vogue describes the R-rated romp as ‘a Harold and Maude–type comedy based on a Craigslist ad in which a mom was seeking someone to date her son before he went to college.’

Could it be love? The 32-year-old star was shooting a scene with was was Andrew Feldman whom she held hands with

Happy with this man: Lawrence’s character smiled as she seemed to be in a sunny mood

Hungry? Her costar Andrew seemed more interested in his snack that he took bites out of than he did in his lady friend

The American Hustle star serves as a producer on the project, which the production company calls an ‘R-rated comedy with a heart.’

She was signed onto the movie one year ago, with Deadline breaking the announcement at the time.

Gene Stupnitsky, who introduced Jennifer to her husband Cooke Maroney, 38, co-wrote the script and is directing.

Thanks to that introduction and her subsequent marriage in October 2019, the Silver Linings Playbook star is now a working mother.

Casual boy: Andrew had on a white and gray striped shirt with beige shorts, blue socks and blue sneakers

New York days: She has been shooting the movie in the Hamptons neighborhood of Long Island, New York for the past several weeks

The happy couple welcomed their son, Cy, in February.

The on-set sighting comes after Lawrence, sometimes referred to by fans as JLaw, recently admitted she felt like a ‘commodity’ following her role in Hunger Games.

‘When I reflect now, I can’t think of those following years, [because there was] just a loss of control,’ the actress revealed.

The dorky dude gets the cute gal: She seemed to be out of his league

Another star: They were also seen with, far right, Kyle James Kozub Mooney is an American actor, comedian, and writer, who was a cast member of Saturday Night Live from 2013 until 2022

She made the remarks to Francine Stock during an onstage interview for the London Film Festival’s Screen Talk series.

‘Between The Hunger Games coming out and winning the Oscar [for 2012’s Silver Lining Playbook], I became such a commodity that I felt like every decision was a big, big group decision,’ the star noted.

And while speaking with Vogue as the magazine’s September cover star, she made strong statements about politics.

She sure can look elegant: Lawrence seen in London at the Causeway European premiere during the 66th BFI London Film Festival at the BFI Southbank on October 8

The Kentucky native specifically mentioned the issues her father’s Trump support has caused.

‘I just worked so hard in the last five years to forgive my dad and my family and try to understand: It’s different. The information they are getting is different. Their life is different,’ she said, referencing details conveyed by conservative media.

She said to the publication, ‘I’ve tried to get over it and I really can’t. I can’t.’







Her next film: From director Lila Neugebauer and starring Lawrence and Brian Tyree Henry, Causeway will debut from Apple TV+ on November 4

The plot: Lynsey, a U.S. soldier, experiences a traumatic brain injury during her tour in Afghanistan which forces her to return home. She struggles to return to her daily life with her mother as she waits for her eventual redeployment

News Related