Press play to listen to this article Voiced by Amazon Polly

Presented by NatWest.

By MATT HONEYCOMBE-FOSTER

PRESENTED BY

Send tips here | Subscribe for free | Listen to Sunday Crunch and view in your browser

Hello and welcome to Sunday Crunch. Matt Honeycombe-Foster here — Annabelle Dickson will be up with the lark tomorrow to bring you Monday morning’s Playbook.

WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW

BACK TRUSS OR GET STARMER: Unite or die. That’s the stark message being bandied about by allies of embattled Prime Minister Liz Truss today as Westminster returns from party conference season in — you guessed it — a febrile mood.

Uh-oh: Less than five weeks into the job and the PM is already hosing down fires on multiple fronts, with the Cabinet row over uprating benefits now heading into its second week; with the handling of a misconduct claim against a former minister further angering some backbenchers; and with the SNP making a fresh bid for Scottish independence and landing new attack lines amid all the chaos.

Assistant TO the regional manager: Cabinet Office Minister Nadhim Zahawi — who revealed he’s started calling himself the government’s “chief operating officer”, because he’s just so darn important — was landed with a tricky Sunday media round, and stuck to the pro-Truss script he’d used in a loyalist Mail on Sunday op-ed. “Delay is our greatest enemy,” he told the BBC’s Laura Kuennsberg. “Division will cause delay.” The Tories, he added, need to “pull together,” and will face voters’ wrath if they “don’t deliver in the next 24 months on that growth plan.”

No, really, PLEASE pull together: The Sunday papers are stacked with similar briefings from key members of Team Truss about the horrors that lie in wait if Tory MPs fail to back their new leader. The Sunday Telegraph carries lines from a No. 10 source who tells Conservative MPs they must stop undermining Truss or risk a “monstrous coalition” government of Labour and the Scottish National Party (more on them in a bit) at the next election. Tory volunteers in the Conservative National Convention also warn in the same paper that grassroots members are “saddened at those in the party who have tried to undermine the prime minister and the entire government.”

**A message from NatWest Group: NatWest Group is committed to championing the potential of people, families and businesses even in times of hardship. Our priority is to provide the practical help and support customers need to thrive. Our cost of living hub demonstrates the strides we are making to support customers.**

The real polls: In his Mail on Sunday piece, Zahawi also deployed the highly scientific method of noting the “spontaneous applause” in support of Truss on BBC Question Time last week as clear evidence she is winning voters round. He also tried on his boss’s best party conference lines for size. “She is ready to face down the anti-growth coalition, facing down two of their representatives when they tried to disrupt her speech last week,” he wrote.

Facing down her opponents latest: The Sunday Times reports that Truss is ready to bow to Cabinet pressure and allow welfare benefits to rise in line with inflation after all.

But but but: A word of caution on that one. It doesn’t sound like this fight — the source of several extraordinary public rows at Tory conference last week — is quite over yet. Instead, Caroline Wheeler and Harry Yorke write, ministers “are preparing to ambush the prime minister at a cabinet meeting on Tuesday, and demand that she rule out” the alternative: benefits rising in line with earnings, which of course would be a real-terms cut.

Not exactly hosing it down: A No. 10 source tells the paper: “The PM is genuinely undecided about this and there’s a process to go through. It’s wrong to suggest she’s digging in on a position, because there’s nothing to dig in on. She’s in listening mode in general, that’s for sure.” Zahawi told Sky’s Trevor Philips that the Department for Work and Pensions is still collating data; that no decision has yet been made; and that Truss “will always be on the side of helping the most vulnerable.” Uh huh.

Back in the real world: New analysis for the Observer reveals that the poorest families would lose £400 a year if benefits do rise in line with pay rather than inflation. The Sunday Times’ data editor Tom Calver also has a thoughtful look at how welfare spending in the U.K. really breaks down, and hammers home the point that 41 percent of people claiming universal credit are already in work.

Twisting the knife: Labour — who the Sun on Sunday’s Kate Ferguson reports could team up with Tory rebels to force the government’s hand on welfare — are naturally trying to make hay with all this. “It’s pretty clear to me that Conservative members of Parliament think this is another unfair deep cut in the incomes of … the poorest pensioners or disabled people, or parents looking after and caring for a disabled child,” said Shadow DWP Secretary Jon Ashworth on Times Radio. “These cuts should not go ahead. So I will work across parliament in a nonpartisan way to block these cuts where we can, if we can.”

Get Gove: Away from the benefits row, it’s pretty clear Michael Gove, who set the tone for Tory conference last Sunday by savaging Truss’ tax agenda, has gotten under the skin of Team Truss. There are some pretty erm, colorful, briefings about in the Sundays.

Harmony update: The Mail on Sunday carries a spicy line from a Truss ally who says the PM tried to meet Gove for tea before conference to see if he fancied a senior diplomatic job. “Michael took a few days to mull over things and then went to Birmingham and stabbed the PM in the back,” the source said. A Gove pal says no job offer was made, while another quips: “It was slightly weird [for the PM] to have Gove in for a 45-minute cup of tea while the economy was in flames around her.”

More Gove praise: Tim Shipman’s big Sunday read is packed with the usual gems, including this belter about Gove from a friend of Truss: “Michael is troubled and has never found his place in the sun. There is something deeply troubling about the darkness inside him. It grips him and it takes over. It corrupts his soul.” There’s also a dig at the ex Cabinet minister for his “failed economics” and the fact the Tory party “has rejected him.” Ouch.

Shippers’ piece is also worth reading for: The very latest on People’s Prime Minister Grant Shapps (h/t: sources close to Grant Shapps) and his fancy £1,649 smartphone, which he’s — of course — using to track the unsettled mood in the parliamentary Conservative Party, via a large spreadsheet. Various questions spring to mind, including a) Do Tory MPs mind that he notes all their private conversations down in a big Excel document; and b) Can’t he just download Netflix like everyone else?

I’m helping: Nadine Dorries, fresh from questioning Truss’ mandate — and laying into her economic agenda — in the middle of Tory conference, was also on Laura K this morning, and insisting she is still *checks notes* one of Truss’ “biggest supporters.”

That support in full: The Conservatives are, she noted, facing “complete wipeout” at the next election, and Truss needs “to reflect on what’s gone wrong and what we need to do to put that right and to reverse that poll deficit. That must be our absolute priority at the moment.”

Unifier, not disruptor: Dorries was also pressed on what should happen to Truss if she doesn’t change course. The devout Boris Johnson ally urged colleagues to avoid the drama of another leadership election, while calling on No. 10 to “take a step back” and think about “how they unify the party.” The Conservatives need a unifier, not a disruptor, at a time like this, she argued. “I think when the Conservative Party is in such a dangerous position it is incumbent upon MPs to discuss with No. 10 and with the leader what we think is the right way forward — because we all know our constituencies, and we know what our voters voted for.”

Alt. option: The government could always just blame the Bank of England for everything, instead … A novel strategy, currently being tested in the Sunday Telegraph.

Taking it in his Stride: They’re not exactly ideological bedfellows, but Sunak-backer Mel Stride and soon-to-be-Baroness Dorries are united on one thing: They both think Truss should have done an awful lot more to reach out to disappointed MPs after she beat the former chancellor. The Treasury committee chair told Times Radio today: “I think you’re probably seeing some of the consequences of that now that things are getting a bit tougher.”

He’s calling it: “I think it’s fairly febrile,” Stride said of the Tory mood.

Conference bounce: The Observer’s latest Opinium poll has Liz Truss’ net approval rating at -47, “even worse than those recorded for Boris Johnson at the height of the Partygate scandal.”

Speaking of Boris: The ex-PM is a “man transformed” and he’s getting some painting, reading, writing, tennis and golf in, pals tell the Mail on Sunday. (Makes a change from all the boozing and snoozing that kept him busy in No. 10, I guess.) Zahawi told the BBC he doesn’t think Johnson fancies a comeback, and that he’s actually telling “anyone who’s willing to listen” that the party needs to get behind Truss.

BURNS KNIGHT: Sacked Conservative minister Conor Burns was in line for a knighthood in Johnson’s resignation honors list, both the Mail on Sunday and Sunday Times report. Eek.

Reminder: Burns was dramatically fired Friday over allegations of “serious misconduct” after a formal complaint was made about his behavior at the Conservative Party conference.

The latest: The BBC’s Chris Mason reported Saturday that Burns was sacked “after eyewitnesses saw him touching a young man’s thigh” in front of several onlookers at the Hyatt Regency hotel bar in Birmingham, and that concerns were raised about “inappropriate comments” he also made at the conference. Burns was allegedly so drunk at one point that he had to be taken back to his hotel by a friend. An ally of Burns — who denies wrongdoing — tells Mason that the former minister injured his ribs before conference and was on pain medication that made the effects of alcohol worse. Burns said in a statement: “I hope the party will be as quick to conduct their inquiry as they were to rush to judgment.”

The Spice Girls angle: The plot thickened Saturday as singer Mel B, who attended Tory conference as a domestic violence campaigner, tweeted in response to Burns’ statement: “Really?? Your shocked about this complaint??? Let me remind you what you said me in lift …” She did not elaborate further, and Burns said: “I believe I have never met Mel.”

Back to the honors: Citing Whitehall sources, the Mail on Sunday’s Brendan Carlin and Katie Hind report that while Johnson’s resignation honours list has not yet been submitted, it is “convention only” that a serving PM doesn’t block their predecessor’s choices — meaning the gong could yet be shelved.

Tory grumblings: The Sunday Times picks up on anger in the Tory ranks over the lack of due process afforded to Burns. “There’s a lot of upset in the parliamentary party,” an MP said. “People think it’s a put-up job by the whips. No complaint was made by the individual.”

Rogues’ gallery: Paul Goodman of Tory grassroots bible ConservativeHome gives a flavor of the mood, arguing Burns should have been suspended rather than sacked. He also points out that there are now five former Conservatives sitting as independent MPs, reducing the government’s oddly-fragile majority at a time it needs all the votes it can get. “Suspension rather than sacking would apply in any decently-operating workplace, and it should have done to Burns too,” Goodman writes.

NICOLA’S BIG WEEK: It’s a big week for the SNP’s fight to force an independence referendum, with the party’s annual conference in Aberdeen wrapping up tomorrow just as its High Court battle with Westminster gets underway.

Reminder: In what looks like very handy timing for a party desperate to rally the pro-indy troops, the U.K.’s Supreme Court will hear arguments from Tuesday on whether Holyrood has the power to call a second indyref in a year’s time, even without the consent of Liz Truss’ government.

Sounding bullish: Speaking to Laura K, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said she was “confident” an October 2023 referendum “can happen.” While she stressed that there’s “little point speculating on the outcome of a court hearing,” Sturgeon’s government is working on “refreshing and updating the substantive case for independence” and, fellow SNP guest Joanna Cherry revealed, we can expect a paper on an independent Scotland’s currency in the next few days. Also on the sofa, Labour grandee Alistair Darling raised those eyebrows at the idea an independent Scotland would really want to use the pound after its recent trashing.

Battle lines: Speaking of the pound’s woes, Sturgeon also tried out some new attack lines on the Westminster government, aided by what has by any measure been a disastrous few weeks for the Conservatives.

Key quote: “Alistair in 2014 told the people of Scotland … that independence would threaten our membership of the European Union; independence would imperil people’s pensions; and independence would cause a currency crisis,” Sturgeon noted. “Look at where we are right now. Out of the European Union, pensions within hours of falling through, and the currency plunging. These are the consequences that people are paying the price of right now. And these all flow for Scotland from not being an independent country.” Expect to hear plenty more along those lines if the Truss growth plan doesn’t come good (or, let’s be honest, even if it does).

Not for turning (on this at least): Truss has stuck fastidiously to the U.K. government view that the 2014 referendum was a “once in a generation” event, despite the SNP argument that the seismic shock of Brexit warrants a rematch.

Which takes us full circle: With that “anti-growth coalition” mantra coupled with today’s doomladen briefings to the papers, Team Truss are clearly going to be dusting off the old “Vote Labour, Get SNP” strategy that served David Cameron so well in 2015.

So expect this to get clipped up by the Tories: Pressed on whether she’d prefer a Labour government to a Conservative one in Westminster, Sturgeon was pretty clear. “I detest the Tories and everything they stand for. So it’s not difficult to answer that question.”

But but but: Sturgeon urged a more “radical alternative from Labour rather than just a pale imitation” under Starmer. And she said Scotland deserves better than either the Tories or Labour. Labour’s Ashworth didn’t muck about when asked by Sky’s Philips whether his party would grant the SNP an indyref. “No,” he replied.

ICYMI: The always-concise Ian Blackford had fun at SNP conference Saturday, laying into the government’s economic record and accusing Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng of making “the worst first impression in the history of British politics.”

QUICK-FIRE CATCH-UP

ENERGY CAMPAIGN ROW: Get the turkey in! Zahawi told the BBC he’s “confident” Brits “can enjoy their Christmas” as he stressed that blackouts are unlikely this winter and defended the government’s decision not to run a PR campaign urging the country to cut its energy use.

Festive spirit: Zahawi stressed that those warnings about rolling three-hour power cuts last week came under the National Grid’s least likely scenario, and said the U.K. has “the same buffer” as last year when it comes to ensuring its energy supply. Domestic gas production is up, and there’s plenty of liquefied natural gas on hand, he pointed out. “So I’m confident that the resilience is there that people can enjoy their Christmas and feel that their government is behind them, helping them with their energy bills.”

On not running that ad blitz to cut energy use: Zahawi told Laura K that the PM had determined “we don’t need to spend £14-15 million pounds on another campaign” if energy regulator Ofgem and the National Grid are already working to give Brits advice and reduce demand. He’s pointing anyone keen to cut their use to head to gov.uk and navigate what we can all agree is a very simple-to-use website.

HANCOCK’S HALF HOUR RANT: Britain’s former Vaccine Taskforce head Kate Bingham says she was the subject of an “extraordinary ambush” by Matt Hancock over her plans to secure enough jabs for Brits at the height of the pandemic. “The health secretary was openly accusing me of a lack of ambition, questioning my competence, and doing so in front of his Cabinet colleagues and key officials,” Bingham writes for the Mail on Sunday, in a confrontation she describes as “pure politics.” Her book ‘The Long Shot’ is out later this month.

SPEAKING OF COVID: Zahawi urged Brits to “be sensible” and ensure they get booster vaccines and flu jabs amid soaring coronavirus infection rates, but declined to endorse a call from government advisers to limit contact with elderly relatives.

JUST SAY NO: Home Secretary Suella Braverman is exploring plans to make cannabis a Class A drug, according to the Sunday Times, as part of plans to “scare people” into swerving drugs altogether. Presumably no-one told her what’s going on in the rest of the world. It’s almost like there’s a Conservative beauty contest going on.

SOMEDAY YOU WILL FIND ME, CAUGHT BENEATH AN ETHICS PROBE: The Liberal Democrats have written to Cabinet Secretary Simon Case to demand an investigation into whether Kwasi Kwarteng’s champagne reception with bankers in the wake of his mini-budget broke the ministerial code. Props to Christine Jardine for the use of “quaffing” in her accompanying quote to the Observer, which has the story.

THAT SUNDAY FEELING: Some Tory MPs are up in arms about what the Sun on Sunday dubs “a campaign to tell snowflakes how to avoid the Sunday blues,” as it emerged the Department of Health is launching a website to help people cope with the fear of the week ahead. Crunch prefers to get that inevitable feeling of overwhelming dread in early, on a Saturday afternoon.

RURAL ROWS: The boss of the National Trust is threatening to get her 5.7 million members on Liz Truss’ case if the PM presses ahead with fracking and waters down environmental protections for the countryside. The Sunday Times has a punchy interview with Hilary McGrady — presumably a dangerous member of the anti-growth coalition — who accuses Truss of “demonising” Britain’s conservationists. It’s not just the National Trust, either: the Observer’s Helena Horton and Toby Helm warn that the PM is facing a “rural revolt” from a host of charities (and indeed her own MPs) over the environment.

UKRAINE LATEST: Vladimir Putin has ordered the country’s Federal Security Service (FSB) to secure the Kerch Bridge after it was partially destroyed by an explosion Saturday morning. Our Kyiv-based POLITICO colleague Sergei Kuzenetzov writes that the partial downing of the bridge marks “a strategic and symbolic blow” to the Russian president’s campaigning against Ukraine, and “endangers a crucial route for Russian military supplies to support its forces in southern Ukraine.”

Now read this: The Washington Post has an excellent long-read on why the Kerch Bridge explosion really is such a big deal. “It was a strategic disaster and, in part because of Putin’s personal identification with the bridge, a symbolic disaster as well, in a war where symbols matter to the morale of a restive Russian population, on the one hand, and to Ukraine’s Western supporters, for whom highly visible gains for Ukraine are important not only to keep the arms flowing but to persuade citizens that their sacrifices, like high energy prices, are bearing fruit,” the Post reports.

SUNDAY MEDIA ROUND

Ayesha Hazarika on Times Radio (4 p.m. to 7 p.m): Ukrainian MP Sviatoslav Yurash; Conservative MP Greg Smith; Shadow Foreign Affairs Minister Fabian Hamilton; Lib Dem Brexit and trade spokesperson Christine Jardine.

The Andrew Neil Show (Channel 4, 5.45 p.m.): Former Veterans’ Affairs Minister Johnny Mercer; Labour’s Shadow Work and Pensions Secretary Jonathan Ashworth; Former Chancellor George Osborne; and ex-Shadow Chancellor Ed Balls.

Westminster Hour (BBC Radio 4, 10 p.m.): Conservative MP Richard Holden; Shadow Business Minister Seema Malhotra; SNP Work and Pensions Spokesperson Kirsty Blackman.

WEEK AHEAD

MONDAY

— SCOTLAND: Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to give keynote speech at the SNP autumn conference in Aberdeen, around 3 p.m.

— IMMIGRATION: High Court to hear further challenge to the Home Office’s Rwanda deportation plan.

— LORDS: To sit with swearing in and oral questions to take place.

TUESDAY

— SCOTLAND: Supreme Court hears case brought by Scotland’s most senior legal officer, the lord advocate, who has asked the court to rule on whether Holyrood has the necessary powers to call a referendum without Westminster’s approval.

— COMMONS: Sits from 2.30 p.m. with Treasury questions to Chancellor Kwasi Kwarteng, followed by a bill to repeal the national insurance rise brought in earlier this year.

— ECONOMY: International Monetary Fund to publish its annual World Economic Outlook. Press conference scheduled for 2 p.m. U.K. time.

— ECONOMY: Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey to give an update on the economy in Washington, 7.35 p.m. U.K. time.

— SECURITY: GCHQ Director Jeremy Fleming delivers security lecture on China.

— LORDS: Peers will consider the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill.

— STRIKES: Liverpool dock workers to strike.

WEDNESDAY

— COMMONS: Sits from 11.30 a.m., with Scottish questions followed by PMQs and then the second reading of the Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Bill.

— ENERGY: Climate Change Minister Graham Stuart to give evidence to the Commons business committee on the move away from fossil fuels, 10 a.m.

— SCOTLAND: Scottish referendum case to continue at the Supreme Court.

— ECONOMY: U.K. GDP figures to be published, 7 a.m.

— ECONOMY: Bank of England Chief Economist Huw Pill to speak with Scottish Council for Development and Industry, text to be released at 12.35 p.m.

— DEFENSE: NATO defense ministers, including Ben Wallace, to begin two-day meeting in Brussels, with the Ukraine conflict set to dominate.

— LORDS: Holds the report stage of the Product Security and Telecommunications Infrastructure Bill.

— CONFERENCE: Sinn Fein People’s Assembly.

THURSDAY

— COMMONS: Sits from 9.30 a.m. with transport questions, followed by the business statement and then the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill.

— LORDS: Peers to debate loot boxes, indefinite prison sentences and the Times Education Commission.

— ENERGY: Ofgem Chief Executive Jonathan Brearley to speak at Energy UK Annual Conference.

— STRIKES: Royal Mail staff strike.

— COURTS: Court hearing for two men charged with murder of journalist Lyra Mckee in Northern Ireland.

FRIDAY

— ECONOMY: Bank of England gilt-buying operation is due to conclude.

— STRIKES: NEU teachers’ consultative strike ballot closes.

SATURDAY

— ECONOMY: Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey to address the G30 banking seminar.

— SCOTLAND: Alba Party autumn conference to be held.

SUNDAY

— CHINA: Opening of the 20th National Congress of the Chinese Communist Party.

— HEALTH: World Health Summit.

Thanks to Jack Blanchard for the careful edits.

**A message from NatWest Group: We are committed to championing the potential of people, families and businesses even in times of hardship. Our priority is to provide the practical help and support customers need to thrive. Our cost of living hub demonstrates this. We’ve launched a package of support, including £4 million of support delivered through partner organisations, including Citizens Advice, StepChange and the Money Advice Trust, to assist with debt advice, mental health support and a ‘help through hardship’ helpline. We proactively contacted over 2.7 million customers by end of July, offering support and information on the cost of living, and are taking action on a range of fees and charges for personal customers in financial difficulty. To support businesses we introduced a £1.25bn lending package for UK farmers facing inflation challenges, lowered the threshold for our green loans offering, and are freezing the standard published tariffs on Business Current Accounts for 12 months.**

SUBSCRIBE to the POLITICO newsletter family: Brussels Playbook | London Playbook | Playbook Paris | POLITICO Confidential | Sunday Crunch | EU Influence | London Influence | Digital Bridge | China Direct | Berlin Bulletin | D.C. Playbook | D.C. Influence | Global Insider | All our POLITICO Pro policy morning newsletters