Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. What is the brightest star in the Solar System?



Answer: Sun



The largest and the only one star in the solar system is the Sun. The Sun is the star around which the Earth and other planets in the solar system revolve; it is the source of energy, light and heat. The diameter of the Sun is 109 times bigger the Earth's diameter. The Sun is the largest object in the solar system and consists mainly of Hydrogen and Helium.



While looking from the Earth, the brightest planet in the solar system is Venus. Sirius, also known as Alpha Canis Majoris or Dog Star, is the brightest star in the night sky, but it is not in the Solar System.

2. "Nothing But Nets" is a global program that aims to expand activities in which of these subjects?



Answer: Fighting malaria



In 2006, American sportswriter Richard Paul Reilly, known as Rick Reilly, published an article in Sports Illustrated about a program dedicated to provide adequate mosquito bed nets for African children, with the aim of reducing the incidence of malaria, one of the biggest causes of infant mortality in the most deprived areas, especially in Africa.



Thousands of people joined the initiative, resulting in the creation of the "Nothing But Nets" foundation in partnership with the United Nations Foundation. The campaign consists of purchasing, distributing and educating adults, especially on the proper use of bed nets in areas with a high incidence of malaria. These actions are also carried out by the Against Malaria Foundation (AMF), an entity based in United Kingdom.

3. In 1947, for the first time, the Golden Globe Awards gave an award to "The Best Original Score - Motion Picture" category. Which one of these composers was the first to be awarded?



Max Steiner



The Golden Globe Awards was created in 1943 by the members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association to recognize the best of national and international cinema and television. Different categories of awards have been introduced over time. In 1947, the "Best Original Score for Motion Picture" category was introduced and the award went to the composer Maximilian Raoul Steiner (1888-1971,) known as Max Steiner.



In the period from 1930s to 1960s, Steiner composed over 300 film scores, between them "Since You Went Away", "Casablanca" and "Gone with the Wind". Answer:The Golden Globe Awards was created in 1943 by the members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association to recognize the best of national and international cinema and television. Different categories of awards have been introduced over time. In 1947, the "Best Original Score for Motion Picture" category was introduced and the award went to the composer Maximilian Raoul Steiner (1888-1971,) known as Max Steiner.In the period from 1930s to 1960s, Steiner composed over 300 film scores, between them "Since You Went Away", "Casablanca" and "Gone with the Wind".

4. What word represents the letter "Y" in the NATO phonetic alphabet?



Answer: Yankee



The letter "Y" is represented in the NATO phonetic alphabet by the word "Yankee" whose phonic pronunciation is "Yang-Key". The word used in phonetic alphabets has not always been "Yankee": Yokohama and Yolanda have also been used.



The words that make up the phonetic alphabet were chosen because they cannot be confused with other words when pronounced. The use of the phonetic alphabet to spell parts of messages, which contain letters and numbers, aims to avoid confusion by similar sounds, static or other noises that may interfere with the transmission.

5. Boris Johnson is a very well-known politician although not everyone knows what his first name is. What is his first name?



Answer: Alexander



Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson was born on June 19, 1964 in Manhattan, New York, USA to English parents. In 1963, Stanley Johnson and Charlotte Fawcett had married and moved to United States. In 1964, a few months after Boris was born, the family returned to England. In the period 1966 to 1969 the family returned to reside in the United States.



There are reports that when he was young and within his family he used the name Alexander, but that he later decided to use his middle name because it was a more original, less common name.

6. Which battle of the American Civil War is estimated to have had the greatest number of casualties?



Answer: Gettysburg



The Battle of Gettysburg, which occurred in early July 1863, was the deadliest battle of the American Civil War and is considered the war's turning point. In this battle the Union General George G. Meade stopped attacks by Confederate General Robert E. Lee.



In November of the same year, President Abraham Lincoln, in the Soldiers' National Cemetery, where the dead of both armies were buried, gave his famous Gettysburg Address.

7. Which of these countries does NOT have a capital city beginning with the letter K?



Answer: Senegal



The capital cities of Rwanda, Ukraine and Uganda are Kigali, Kyiv and Kampala respectively. Senegal's capital is Dakar, with around 1.03 million inhabitants.



The Republic of Senegal is a country located in West Africa, bordered by Mauritania, Mali, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau and by the Atlantic Ocean. Dakar is the capital and largest city of Senegal and one of the chief seaports on the western African coast. It is located between the mouths of the Gambia and Senegal rivers, on the Cap-Vert peninsula, and is the westernmost city on the Africa mainland.

8. If someone offers you a "Quandong", what should you do?



Eat it



Quandong is the name of a fruit and of a small native Australian tree that produces it. This plant is found in many arid regions of Australia and its fruit, sometimes called desert peach, is an important component of the diet of some native populations.



In general this fruit, when ripe, has a color ranging from yellow to shiny red. It can be eaten fresh or dried; its taste, although slightly salty or sour, has a sweetness that varies from plant to plant and is similar to apricot, rhubarb and peach. Answer:Quandong is the name of a fruit and of a small native Australian tree that produces it. This plant is found in many arid regions of Australia and its fruit, sometimes called desert peach, is an important component of the diet of some native populations.In general this fruit, when ripe, has a color ranging from yellow to shiny red. It can be eaten fresh or dried; its taste, although slightly salty or sour, has a sweetness that varies from plant to plant and is similar to apricot, rhubarb and peach.

9. The year 1816 became known as the "Year Without Summer", due to the low temperatures observed in various parts of the world. There is evidence that the phenomenon was caused by the eruption of Mount Tambora in 1815. In which country is Mount Tambora located?



Answer: Indonesia



Mount Tambora or Tombora is an active stratovolcano located on Sumbawa Island, Indonesia. On April, 5, 1815 a series of small eruptions occurred culminating in the largest eruption ever recorded in human history. The thunderous sound could be heard more than 2000km away accompanied by heavy volcanic ash rains.



The eruption is estimated to have had a Volcanic Explosivity Index (VEI) 7. Before the eruption Mount Tambora was over 4300 meters high; after the explosion, its height was reduced to 2850 meters.



The release of millions of tons of sulphur into the stratosphere caused the global weather to be abnormally cold the following seasons.

10. The Olympic Committee of the 2020-2021 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games decided that the winning athletes would receive not only medals but also "victory bouquets". What flowers made up these bouquets?



Answer: Sunflowers, eustomas and gentians



The bouquet that the athletes received has a deep symbolism: They showed to the world Japan's recovery after the earthquake and tsunami of 2011, when around 20,000 people died or disappeared and entire cities were devastated.



Besides medals, the winning athletes received a small bouquet with yellow sunflowers, green eustomas and deep-blue gentians, tied with a blue bow. The sunflowers come from the Miyagi prefecture where around 10,000 people, especially children, died or disappeared in the 2011 catastrophes. Eustomas are usually green and are grown in the Fukushima region where radiation levels are still too high for food production; this is a way to show the city's recovery through the flowers. Gentians, with their characteristic intense indigo blue, have been cultivated since the 1960s in the coastal region of Iwate, which was devastated by tidal waves.

Source: Author masfon This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor agony before going online.Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.