Assumed knowledge

Current Senior First Aid Certificate.

More about assumed knowledge

Entry requirement

You must have a completed recognised degree (or equivalent) in a medical science or health science field in 2013 or more recently.

If you completed your degree earlier than 2013 you must provide evidence with your QTAC application of your graduate work experience and/or completed further studies in a medical science or health science gained in 2013 or more recently.

Completed graduate diplomas, masters and/or doctorates are the accepted equivalents.

Selection ranks

You will be considered solely on the basis of selection ranks from your prior degree studies plus any postgraduate studies you may have undertaken. Other qualifications and experiences may be allocated selection ranks for entry to other QUT courses, but will not be considered for this course.

Find out more about how to Apply with Higher Education Study.

Automatic advanced standing (credit)

If admitted to the graduate entry program you will automatically receive one year of advanced standing which will entitle you to complete the degree in two years (full time).

Advanced standing

If you have prior studies or work experience, you may be eligible for advanced standing (credit). You can apply for advanced standing once you've been accepted to QUT. If you're in your first semester of study, you must apply for advanced standing within 10 days of receiving your offer.

More about advanced standing

Deferment

You can defer your offer and postpone the start of your course for one year.

More about deferring your offer

Adjustments to your ATAR/selection rank

Any adjustments you receive to your ATAR or selection rank will be applied to this course.

Find out if you’re eligible for an adjustment to your ATAR or selection rank

Offers we made to school leavers in Semester 1, 2022

425582 Bachelor of Paramedic Science - Graduate Entry

This course is not open to current year 12 students. Selection ranks are only allocated for degree (or higher) studies. Thus, no offers were made on the basis of ATAR.

You can find out more about your fellow students’ backgrounds with this course’s student profile.

Other admission options

If you are of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent, you may be eligible for admission through our Centralised Assessment Selection Process (CASP).