Something went wrong, please try again later.

Invalid email Something went wrong, please try again later.

Comments by the Home Secretary Suella Braverman revealing her 'dream' of seeing migrants transported to Rwanda have prompted anger in Birmingham. Speaking at the Tory party conference in Birmingham last week, Braverman revealed her hopes of the front page of The Daily Telegraph picturing a plane taking off to Rwanda.

But this 'obsession' with deporting people to the East African country poses 'a real nightmare for asylum seekers settling in the UK' it has been claimed. Following on from the former Home Secretary Priti Patel's strong attitude towards asylum seekers and refugees, Braverman is seemingly keen to continue this work and introduce laws of stopping migrants crossing the Channel. She said: "I will look to bring forward legislation to make it clear that the only route to the UK is through a safe and legal route".

However, migrant-led organisation Migrant Voice said Braverman's words will incite 'tension' and 'division' amongst refugees and asylum seekers looking settle and already in the UK. We spoke to Brummie migrants on their thoughts about the new Home Secretary's view on migration.

Read more: 'We just want to live' -The hidden impact of the cost of living crisis on asylum seekers

Suella Braverman previously told the Sun: "Those people are coming here, they’re not necessarily working or they’re working in low-skilled jobs, and they’re not contributing to growing our economy."

She added: "It is not bigoted to say we have too many asylum seekers abusing the system"

(Image: Migrant Voice)

However seeking asylum has proven difficult to many due to the extensive application process. For NHS workers like Shantel Murray, who settled from Jamaica, she struggled as a non-British care worker when applying for an extension after living in the UK for 20 years spending thousands on her efforts to stay.

The 29 year old, who lives in Yardley, worked throughout the pandemic on the frontline. But she feels Braverman's policies are turning 'people against' her. Shantal told BirminghamLive : "They encouraged people to clap for us during COVID-19 and while we risked our lives, now we are 'low skilled' and unwanted, how do you think that makes us feel?

"I came here as a child and a commonwealth citizen, now the new home secretary wants to turn people against me," she said.

Braverman's predecessor Priti Patel established the Rwanda asylum plan in April sending asylum seekers who cross the channel to the UK a one way ticket to Rwanda to claim asylum there. Although the first flight was cancelled minutes before take off due to the European Court of Human Rights intervention, Braverman has made it clear she wants to make plans to send asylum seekers to Rwanda 'work'.

She said those "deliberately entering the UK illegally from a safe country should be swiftly returned to their home country or relocated to Rwanda".

Those experiencing real consequences of escaping trauma and persecution from their origin countries like Akbar Didar, an Afghan refugee feel Braverman's policies are concerning. After escaping the Taliban in 2001, Akbar is now living in Birmingham and works as a charity worker.

(Image: Migrant Voice)

He told BirminghamLive : "My son recently obtained a first in his degree in engineering. We are so proud of him, if the home office minister has her way people like my son who are much needed in the UK would never be here.

"To add insult to the injury she now dreams about people like me to be flown to Rwanda" he added.

Director of Migrant Voice, a migrant-led oprganisation, Nazek Ramadan reacted to Braverman's policies as 'simply horrifying' and demanded a 'U-turn in the governments approach to migration'. She said: "We wholly reject her intentions and the language she used to describe them.

"Her choice of words to describe migrants in lower paid jobs as "low skilled" creates division and tensions and enforces outdated views. The Home Secretary's plan to create a "blanket ban" on people seeking asylum in the UK who enter the country 'illegally', unveiled at the Conservative Party Conference, goes against the basic principle of the UN Convention."

She added: "The government should drop it's current plans to deport asylum seekers to Rwanda and stop entertaining the thought of banishing all asylum seekers who made their own way to our country, and it should create safe and legal routes for people whose lives are in danger to reach the UK."

Do you have a story? Get in touch by emailing anisah.vasta@reachplc.com

READ NEXT: