Overwatch 2 is filled with many different characters, each suited for a particular play style to which certain players will gravitate more towards. Some offer the ability to give your team an advantage with strategic support abilities, whilst others are able to absorb a lot of pain and protect the rest of your squad.

Others bring destruction with devastating damage, helping tip the match in your favour. Overwatch 2 delivers on all fronts, and those looking to dish out the fire in their next game may be intrigued by the latest glitch for the damage class character Bastion. If you’re curious as to what it is and how to use it, look no further.

Be sure to also check out the best support heroes in Overwatch 2.

Overwatch 2 Bastion Glitch: What Is It?

Click to enlarge

Bastion is a fantastic character to use if you’re looking at distributing a high amount of DPS. However, if even that isn’t enough for you, the latest glitch discovered in Overwatch 2 allows you to push them even further.

Every character has a bar at the bottom of the screen, and when it reaches 100%, allows players to use an Ultimate Ability. This is a powerful move, and in the case of Bastion, allows users to utilize an artillery strike. Unfortunately, it’s proven not to be the most powerful in the grand scheme of things, but a newly discovered glitch changes that.

It’s been found that players are able to easily replicate a bug in Overwatch 2 which allows the artillery strike to be spammed throughout the time limit, rather than simply being allowed to be used three times. Unlike other glitches in games, it’s also very easy to do.

Overwatch 2 Bastion Glitch: How To Use

Click to enlarge

If you’re looking to replicate it, you’ll be thankful to know it’s relatively easy. Players simply need to press the attack button and the Ultimate Ability button at the same time once it’s charged. Once done, simply press both again during each artillery strike fired and the glitch should happen.

Instances of this happening only seem to be stemming from PC so far, so it may or may not work on consoles, but it’s worth a shot!

While the glitch in Overwatch 2 is relatively simple to perform, it’s worth noting that utilizing it could result in reports or bad feedback from other players. On top of that, we don’t expect it to last very long with Blizzard most likely patching it within the coming days. But if you want to play around with it in the meantime, do so at your own risk.