Today’s remarkable vote at the United Nations General Assembly is a powerful reminder that the overwhelming majority of nations stand with Ukraine, in defense of the UN Charter, and in resolute opposition to Russia’s ongoing war against Ukraine and its …

Kharkiv Art Museum NFT Collection and auction will launch on Binance NFT marketplace on October 13. Proceeds from the collection and auction are to be donated to the museum's needs to continue operating and saving the cultural heritage of Ukraine. …

Kharkiv Art Museum NFT Collection and auction will launch on Binance NFT marketplace on October 13. Proceeds from the collection and auction are to be donated to the museum's needs to continue operating and saving the cultural heritage of Ukraine. …

MIAMI and BALTIMORE, Oct. 13, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Citadel Founder and CEO Ken Griffin today announced a $3 million donation to launch a new multi-year scholarship program to help exceptional Ukrainian students continue their science, technology, …

VIETNAM, October 13 - NEW YORK — Việt Nam continues to call for an end to conflicts, the restoration of peace, and the protection of people’s security and safety and essential infrastructure facilities, Ambassador Đặng Hoàng Giang, Permanent …

The Global Borax Pentahydrate Market is projected to be US$ 654.9 in 2020 to reach US$ 924.6 by 2030 at a CAGR of 3.6%. NEW YORK CITY, NEW YORK, UNITED STATES, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Borax pentahydrate is a white, powdery …

Free livestream featuring Lt. Col. (retired) Alexander Vindman on his book, Here, Right Matters, and what's ahead for the Ukraine war. HOUSTON, TEXAS, UNITED STATES, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Lt. Col. (retired) Alexander Vindman …

The new Forbes article by Boris Kontsevoi, a technology executive, President & CEO of Intetics Inc., a global software engineering and data processing company. NAPLES, FLORIDA, UNITED STATES, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- The …

For free real time breaking news alerts sent straight to your inbox sign up to our breaking news emails Sign up to our free breaking news emails Ukraine has claimed a plea by Moscow-backed separatists for residents of occupied Kherson to evacuate to Russia …

Ukraine has welcomed pledges by the West of more missile defense systems as Russian strikes on cities this week show that time is of the essence for their delivery and deployment. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky said his military may have …

With a new wave of Russian airstrikes this week that slammed into the capital and more than a dozen other cities, Western officials are under increasing pressure to speed the delivery of missiles, launchers and other sophisticated air defense systems to …

Local residents make their way through the ruins of a bridge that was destroyed in Bakhmut, Donetsk region, Ukraine, October 6, 2022.ZOHRA BENSEMRA/Reuters Russian-backed forces have made some advances in eastern Ukraine, Britain said on Friday, even …

“Cold, hunger, darkness and thirst are not as scary and deadly for us as your ‘friendship and brotherhood’.” These were the words of President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to Russia six days after September 6, when Ukraine began its surprising counteroffensive in …

LUBIANKA, Ukraine — When Olga Shcherba learned that her husband might be in Russian captivity, she was relieved. It was a strange feeling. But it was better than the alternative. Bohdan Shcherba, a 31-year-old industrial worker from outside Kyiv, had gone …

With a new wave of Russian airstrikes this week that slammed into the capital and more than a dozen other cities, Western officials are under increasing pressure to speed the delivery of missiles, launchers and other sophisticated air defense systems to …

In the early hours of 24 February, when Russian rockets started to pound Ukraine, unleashing the biggest attack on a European state since the second world war, Artur, like millions of Ukrainians, grabbed his phone to contact his family. But while most …

The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) says it shares "frustration'' about incomplete access to prisoners of the war in Ukraine. It comes after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy accused the ICRC of inaction in upholding the …

Rapes and sexual assaults attributed to Moscow's forces in Ukraine are part of a Russian "military strategy" and a "deliberate tactic to dehumanise the victims", said UN envoy Pramila Patten in an interview on Friday. Since Russia …

It's the most-recent in a series of threats made by Russian tyrant Vladimir Putin relating to his country's nuclear arsenal and the potential horrors it could unleash Putin has issued another threat against NATO and the world ( Image: via REUTERS) …

Issued on: 14/10/2022 - 11:21 A wave of missile attacks the likes of which had not been seen in months: Russian missiles rained down on cities across Ukraine this week, including in Lviv, Kyiv, Zaporizhzhia, and many others. The attacks follow the …

Rapes and sexual assaults attributed to Moscow's forces in Ukraine are part of a Russian "military strategy" and a "deliberate tactic to dehumanise the victims", said UN envoy Pramila Patten in an interview on Friday. Since Russia …

Ukraine’s Kyiv and Odessa provinces came under attack from Russia’s Kamikaze drones Thursday as missiles fell on key cities in the fourth day of bombardment by a cornered Kremlin. Five people were killed in the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv Thursday …

A worker climbs a cylinder at a gas compressor station at the Yamal-Europe pipeline near Nesvizh, southwest of Minsk December 29, 2006. REUTERS/Vasily Fedosenko/ Oct 14 (Reuters) - Eastbound gas flows stopped on Friday via the Yamal-Europe pipeline …

'Bad timing': Elon Musk's company can no longer fund its vital service to Ukraine Elon Musk's company SpaceX, which services one the most critical pieces of technology in Ukraine's fight against Russia, says it can no longer donate …

In July, dozens of Ukrainian prisoners were killed in explosions at the camp, which both sides blamed on each other. Kyiv said the prison was targeted by Russia to destroy evidence of torture and killing, while Moscow blamed Ukrainian rockets. Without an …

The Russian invasion of Ukraine that began on Feb. 24 continues, with casualties rising on both sides. Russian President Vladimir Putin has announced Russia's annexation of four partially occupied Ukrainian regions following referendums that Western …

CAIRO - 10 October 2022: No Egyptian observers were sent to follow up on referendums held in Ukrainian regions that as a result have been annexed to Russia, according to a Monday statement by the Foreign Ministry. Some websites specialized in squash have …

Online News Monitoring Made Simple

Established in 1995, EIN Newsdesk helps millions of users track breaking news across thousands of trusted websites. Users may set up custom email newsletters and RSS feeds or search among thousands of preset news sections. As a member, you may also submit your own news using the EIN Presswire distribution service. Membership is free and we do not sell or lease any information about you. Press release distribution, dedicated APIs, and custom services generate the revenue that allow us to offer you free basic access.