Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua made a special tribute to Boment Woman Rep Linet Toto during a conference in Rwanda

While introducing her, Rigathi said Toto is one of Kenya's miracles as she won her seat at only 24 years old

Besides the MPs and senators who accompanied the DP during the youth summit, one of his sons was also present

Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua has proudly introduced Bomet woman representative Linet Chepkorir, alias Toto, during his visit to Rwanda.

Rigathi warmly introduced Linet Toto during a youth summit in Rwanda. Photos: Rigathi Gachagua.

Source: UGC

Over 10 leaders accompanied the second in command during his Rwanda trip today, where he graced a youth conference dubbed Youth Connect Africa Summit 2022.

In his speech, Rigathi introduced Toto to the audience, and she immediately stole the show going by the ovation she received after the attendees learnt she won her seat at only 24 years old.

"I came with 12 young leaders who were elected the other day and whom we have given immense responsibility in the National Assembly so that the young people can start taking their rightful place.

PAY ATTENTION: Share your outstanding story with our editors! Please reach us through news@tuko.co.ke or WhatsApp: 0732482690.

I came with one of the miracles in our country, a little young girl, 24 years old and was elected as the Woman Rep of Bomet county defeating a mature experienced woman,” he said amidst cheers from the audince.

Toto also waved at the crowd, who admired her success.

Besides the political leaders who made part of Rigathi's delegation, one of the DP's sons was also in attendance.

Digital strategist Dennis Itumbi was also in attendance.

Rigathi Gachagua leaves for Rwanda on first international trip

As TUKO.co.ke reported, Deputy President Rigathi Gachagua flew out of the country on his maiden foreign trip since his inauguration as Kenya's second in command.

Gachagua and his entourage flew out to Kigali, where they graced the Youth Connect Africa Summit in Rwanda.

The DP was accompanied by, among others, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Kiambu senator Karungo Wathang'wa and notably, Bomet woman representative Linet Chepkorir alias Toto.

This was also Toto's first foreign trip since clinching the seat. However, it is not the first time she is accompanying Gachagua on an official government trip.

On Friday, September 23, Gachagua also tagged Toto when he toured Kisumu during the 94th edition of the Schools Music Gala Awards.

PAY ATTENTION: check out news exactly for YOU ➡️ find "Recommended for you" block and enjoy!

Source: TUKO.co.ke