The new Metropolitan police commissioner, Mark Rowley, has a simple response to the crisis of trust in his force: Blame your predecessor, talk tough and promise change. It’s an old playbook.

The last commissioner, Cressida Dick, was “too weak” in “rooting out” corrupt, racist and misogynist cops, according to Rowley.

But this time it’s different. On his watch, the canteen culture will be tackled by a new Line of Duty squad leaving no stone unturned in pursuit of Bad Lieutenants with “abhorrent” views.

David Eden, the former Met officer whose whistleblowing plunged the Met into further crisis this week, wishes the new commissioner well but says he has a big problem convincing the public and cops:

“What did Rowley do to confront the canteen culture when he was climbing up the promotion ladder from constable to sergeant to inspector to chief constable and now to head of the Met? Can we believe he never encountered it? Is someone who acquiesces to the canteen culture capable of putting it right?”

It’s an important question that Rowley sidestepped on BBC Newsnight last Thursday.

His interview followed an Upsetter/BBC investigation about Eden’s life as a sleeper inside a closed police WhatsApp group of serving and former diplomatic protection officers sharing content that would not be out of place on a neo-Nazi website.

New Met Commissioner Sir Mark Rowley doing the media rounds

If Rowley wants public trust, his first step should be a candid explanation of what he did, or did not do, to confront the canteen culture encountered during a police career of 30 years - in West Midlands, the National Criminal Intelligence Service, Surrey and the Met - before he took up his post as Commissioner last month.

The top cop should also admit what it is about the culture of policing that stops officers from calling out corrupt, racist, groping and bullying colleagues?

There’s the Serpico effect of being ostracised by colleagues and fearing they won’t have your back next time your crash through a door and wrestle a machete-wielding thug.

Then there’s the well known two-faced vindictiveness of police management who ‘welcome’ back whistleblowers while waiting for an opportunity to ‘do their legs’ for embarrassing the organisation.

And finally, there’s the fallacy of a fair shake from the force’s internal affairs unit. Its primary objective - contrary to the Line of Duty nonsense - is not to follow corruption without fear or favour, but to protect the organisation and its favoured sons and daughters as far as possible. Corruption management, in other words.

Sergeant Dave Eden

Eden joined the Met in 1982 and retired from policing in 2010. The 62-year-old is very clear why he went along with aspects of the canteen culture and what happened when he didn’t.

“Firstly, when I was young in service I was too frightened to challenge the canteen culture. Secondly, I went along with it while secretly evidencing it on an almost weekly basis. And thirdly, my experiences of trying to challenge canteen culture from the rank of sergeant and as a Federation rep were blocked at every single stage and threats were made.”

The Upsetter can confirm Eden’s status as a whistleblower while he was serving in the police. He reported corruption allegations to the Met’s anti-corruption command, known as the Untouchables, only to be ignored.

His information concerned a Met special constable involved in organised crime, who claimed to Eden that a named senior officer had her back.

Eden later exposed a corrupt culture of performance targets at Hertfordshire police where motorists were being fitted up. Nothing happened and he was effectively forced out of the force.

Unsurprisingly, therefore, Eden refused to engage with the Untouchables when The Upsetter and The Mirror first revealed in April the existence of the WhatsApp group.

In an email six months ago, Eden told the Met’s anti-corruption command:

“This is an ongoing course of conduct evidenced from 1982 onwards. During my service I have made numerous representations that were all ignored including submitting reports to the Met pertaining to criminal activities of deceased special constable Nisha Patel Nasri which the Met failed to investigate and prevented the intelligence officer on the inquiry from investigating stating they didn't want the Met to be involved in a corruption inquiry. Therefore, historically, having made numerous representations to Met and Herts police over the years and being repeatedly ignored and marginalised I have no confidence whatsoever in reporting any matters to the police service as it is my belief that they will only act in the interests of the police, in other words, institutional protectionism. So no I haven't reported these matters recently but in order to bring these matters to the public's attention I published a book, Nut and Gut, available online, detailing historic and contemporary incidents of racism, sexism, homophobia and corruption in the police service.”

Eden is not interested in another internal investigation where a few individual officers are hung out to dry and the canteen culture carries on regardless with a new Sid James or Kenneth Williams at the helm.

That is why he is preparing a dossier of evidence based on his archive of hate and personal experience which he will shortly present to the Dame Elish Angiolini inquiry.

It was established by the Home Office in response to the kidnap, rape and murder of Sarah Everard by a serving Met protection officer. The killing in March 2021 proved to be the tipping point in the escalating crisis of confidence the Met was facing at the time.

Wayne Couzens, 40, has since been lifed off for Everard’s murder. How he came to be recruited by the Met is part of the Angiolini Inquiry along with the wider issues about policing culture and misogyny.

Couzens kidnaps Everard using his warrant card and handcuffs

The Met has set up a separate inquiry into “the standards of behaviour and internal culture”. It is yet to report and is being overseen by Baroness Louise Casey, a cross bencher and former civil servant with an interest in homelessness and how the criminal justice system treats victims.

The review team supporting Casey is very much a Met affair led by Commander Rachel Williams. And the baroness’s report will go to the Commissioner before publication to be checked for “factual and contextual accuracy”.

Eden told Newsnight he will only engage with Angiolini, a former Lord Advocate of Scotland, because her inquiry has greater independence from the Met.

But Angiolini would do well to remember a very recent example of how the Met sought to undermine the key findings of an independent inquiry that branded the force “institutionally corrupt.”

After eight years examining the Met’s response to the 1987 axe murder of a private investigator, the Daniel Morgan Independent Panel concluded in June 2021 that the UK’s biggest force put protecting its reputation before an honest accounting of its failures to the victim’s family and the public.

Rather than accept the Panel’s report, the Met commissioned a friendly academic and former senior Met officers she had worked with to critique the devastating finding, that now sits alongside “institutional racism” - the finding of the 1999 Stephen Lawrence Inquiry.

Using new heights in mumbo-jumbo, the academic and her chums, including senior serving Met officers whose identities were initially kept secret, decided that the Met was after all not institutionally corrupt and the Panel led by Baroness Nuala O’Loan had got it wrong.

Baroness Nuala O’Loan

This, then is the hostile police environment the two new inquiries are operating under.

Currently, Angiolini has had to postpone Phase 1 of her inquiry dealing with Wayne Couzens’ recruitment and crimes as sexual offences allegedly committed before the Everard murder are currently in front of the courts.

Consequently, Angiolini will start with Phase 2, a broader dive into the issues around the policing of sexual crimes against woman and girls, domestic abuse and misogyny, including when it is blue on blue.

As a former diplomatic protection officer from 1988-95, Eden feels he can contribute to Angiolini’s understanding of the culture Couzens inherited twenty-five years later when he joined the same unit.

Couzens transferred from the Civil Nuclear Constabulary to the Met in September 2018 and into the Parliamentary and Diplomatic Protection Command in February 2020.

Since his retirement, Eden has been part of closed social media groups made up of serving and former diplomatic protection officers.

In around 2016, a Facebook group of several hundred serving and retired protection officers was formed, which splintered two years later into different groups, he said.

One of them was the vile WhatsApp group that led to the arrest last week of its founder, Rob Lewis, and the appearance on Newsnight of Mark Rowley.

Rob Lewis on Facebook

The Group

Lewis joined the Met in the 1980s. He served on the Diplomatic Protection Group (DPG) in the 90s. Eden remembers their time on the DPG with wry humour, but also with almost as much disdain as the rest of the police had for the “Doors, Pillars & Gates” squad.

Eden scorns the media's lazy portrayal of any Met specialist squad as 'elite' - particularly the DPG.

“It’s unlike any other policing in that we didn’t do any police work. Our only job is to respond within two minutes to an attack alarm from an embassy, palace, parliament or principal. We were a bunch of wasters doing no work, earning shit loads of overtime. And on night duty there was even less to do but watch Tutti Frutti [the German erotic TV show] and porn. I joined because the overtime opportunities were good and I wanted a new bike. The group was full of nuts. I was a bike nut. There were gun nuts, you name it. There were officers who only wanted to be on post, where you worked two hours on and two hours off guarding a building. Then there were the advanced drivers in the two squad cars - Ranger 1 and 2 - and four motorbike officers. It was my people who took Heather Mills’ leg off [in 1993] responding to an alarm in Kensington. Mainly we road around window shopping.”

The culture was macho and bullying those whose faces didn't fit was unremarkable, recalls Eden: “Everyone did it - the bullying. We are all swanning round with guns, taking the piss for years on end. You can imagine when a women turned up [to serve on the DPG] and she was not a cleaner!”

Beyond the usual, bullying took the form of posting offensive material on the base noticeboard in full view of the bosses. “The were was an unwritten rule that nothing posted could be taken down.”

Eden complied, but also secretly photocopied the most offensive material, which now is preserved in folders he will be passing to the Angiolini Inquiry.

He says he also put offensive posters on the same noticeboard. "But mine was aimed at attacking the bullies." It was his way of evening the score, but still amounted to acquiescence, he accepts.

One of the posters Eden kept from his time on the DPG

Eden left the DPG in 1995. Rob Lewis stayed on. “He was carbon copy of 95% of everyone else. Rob didn’t stand out,” one colleague told The Upsetter.

But Lewis was liked and also acted as a Police Federation rep helping cops who were facing discipline or criminal charges.

In August 2018, by now retired, Lewis set up a WhatsApp group of serving and retired DPG officers called 'The Old Boys Beer Meet'. It was a splinter from a larger police Facebook group formed in 2016.

Eden was invited to joined Lewis’s group. He agreed, but in line with his past role as a sleeper inside the police, he sat back and secretly archived the daily posting of racist, misogynist and homophobic bile.

A lot of it was forwarded by Lewis, followed by emojis and sick comments way beyond the gallows humour typical of a profession that sees society at its worst and uses cynicism as armour.

Border Force

Like many retired cops, Lewis was interested in supplementing his police pension and was soon applying to join Border Force, a Home Office agency dealing with, among other things, immigration.

“He told me the civil service exam was harder than anything he’d experienced in the police,” recalls Eden. Lewis passed and for some of his time was stationed at Heathrow Airport.

Eden declined to join Lewis at Border Force but watched with increasing alarm as the immigration officer forwarded hateful material - to the glee of the group, but clearly unacceptable for an official at the UK’s leading airport:

The police canteen culture of the 80s and 90s has migrated online and is today operating “by stealth”, says Eden.

“The anger and resentment has turned inward against fellow officers not the public. Members of the public now have phones so it’s not as easy to get away with racist and sexist attitudes. But online, in private chat group where you have to be referenced in by another like minded serving or retired police officers you can say what you want."

Eden, a former Police Federation representative, says police chiefs have fed the resentment by mishandling diversity in the force.

When not paying “lip service” to being more representative of the society they police, senior officers have promoted the unqualified, just to meet diversity quotas. This, suggests Eden, has bred anger and resentment towards female, gay and non-white officers.

And along with a more divisive and unequal society driven by populist politics since the financial crisis of 2007, these closed police social media groups have become cauldrons of the hate that dare not speak its name openly.

The Lewis WhatsApp group, like others, revelled in its underground existence and how what they chose to post and forward would offend "woke" sensibilities -out there.

Eden monitors the hate [Photo: Michael Gillard]

The Hate: Women

Eden is certain there were serving officers in the WhatsApp group until the murder of Sarah Everard on 3 March last year.

On 11 March, two days after Couzens had been arrested at home with his wife and two children, a member of the WhatsApp group asked the others:

"Does anyone know of this Wayne Couzens on the DPG?"

It suggests that there were serving or very recently retired protection officers on the group. Lewis responded saying said he didn't know Couzens then speculated that the protection officer was “OTS” [over the side - having an affair] with “the girl who got murdered.”

He also forwarded this Highway Code meme that was doing the rounds.

It drew effusive comments from fellow ex-DPG officers. “You are a bad boy!!” one told Lewis. Another said: "Sick bastard, there are only a few people I can send this too, who will find it as funny as we did."

When the press exposed that officers at the scene of Everard’s burnt remains had sent round the same meme, one of Lewis’s WhatsApp group said: “It's amazing what some sick cop bastards find funny!”

One of the group assumed that the officers at the crime scene had been "bubbled up" [reported] by someone in the force. “In typical Met attitudes now! Woke snowflakes!” came a reply, to which Lewis responded with a thumbs up emoji.

The WhatsApp group discussed how in their day they protected their mobile phones. Have two phones said one. Don’t take your own phone to work, said another. It wasn’t the behaviour of the officers at the Everard crime scene that was being judged, but the fact they were stupid enough to get caught.

The group shared this in the last two months

One of the ex-DPG members of the WhatsApp group had also worked on SO15 (the Anti-Terrorist Branch). He boasted of how he had “erased” his mobile phone number from that unit’s records and left only his home one.

Another recalled that while guarding “the PoW (Palace of Westminster) we all removed our phone numbers from job computers” in the aftermath of the Plebgate scandal.

All of which led Lewis to remind the group that when he was in the Met he never kept anything “contentious” on his phone and his bosses thought he was “so perfect” they effectively begged him to become a sergeant.

He followed this comment by forwarding a pornographic PDF of a “camel's toe” - slang for a vagina.

Days later, Lewis was back on front facing duties at Heathrow Airport.

The Hate: Blacks

As previously reported by The Upsetter, the WhatsApp group had a lot to say about the Black Lives Matter movement following the police killing of George Floyd in the US.

The marriage of Prince Harry to the mixed race American actress Meghan Markle was also a concern.

Since becoming a Border Force officer, Lewis forwarded memes that displayed an anger towards immigrants and refugees. Some of this was in tune with the government’s policies and other memes were heading beyond the fringes of UKIP and into the far right.

and this:

The war in Ukraine, which began in February, was also a source of misogynist mirth and anger over the cost to the UK taxpayer. Lewis forwarded this image in response to the request for European countries to take in Ukrainian refugees:

Black people were a particular issue for the WhatsApp group and the hate was directed with vigour at British Labour politicians, such as Diane Abbott and David Lammy.

31 Labour MPs came out in support of Eden when his role as a sleeper in the WhatsApp group was revealed in April.

In a letter to the Met, the parliamentarians asked for action against what they classed as an “institutional” problem.

However, even that did not halt the activities of the WhatsApp group. Lewis knew Eden had by then self-published a book about his time on the DPG, and the whistleblower’s face had also appeared in The Mirror.

Nevertheless, he continued posting racist material while working in Border Force over the summer. Such as this:

and this:

And just before the penny dropped last week, the WhatsApp group was also enjoying this meme:

The Hate: Muslims

Rob Lewis is Jewish. The WhatsApp group he administers shares material denigrating Ramadan and memes combining Islamophobia with a concern over immigration. Such as this:

The WhatsApp group was also mocking of the recent floods in Pakistan:

and Lewis appears to be concerned about the Israeli government’s settlement policy in occupied Palestine, as evidenced by this meme he posted not so long ago:

And after Cressida Dick was forced out of office in February for being too defensive about the scandals engulfing the Met, Lewis posted this meme in anticipation of her woke replacement:

Shamima Begum, UK teen who joined ISIS

Integrity is Negotiable

At the beginning of last week, The Upsetter called all the remaining members of the WhatsApp group not knowing if any of these retired Met police officers still have front facing roles in law enforcement or are dealing with members of the public. Only two returned the call to say they had nothing to say.

Lewis did not respond to calls and on Wednesday the Home Office suspended him from Border Force.

Newsnight was coming out the following day and the BBC had invited the new commissioner, Mark Rowley, on the show to discuss this latest scandal.

At 4.30pm on Thursday, six hours before he was due in the studio, the Met put out a tweet that a man had been arrested in south London earlier that day for offences under the Communications Act and misconduct in a public office. It was Rob Lewis.

That evening, Rowley clung to the arrest as evidence of his new “ruthless” response. There was also talk of a new Line of Duty squad to deal with officers holding abhorrent racist views and abusing women.

The top cop’s language was exactly the same as that used by his predecessor Sir Paul Condon back in 1998 when he launched his squad of Untouchables to “ruthlessly root out” bad apples using tactics previously reserved for organised crime.

The motto of the Met’s Untouchables was “Integrity is Non-Negotiable.” It turned out to be a lie. Twenty-four years later, here we are again.

The truth being that until the public have a truly independent police complaints system and a truly independent prosecution service the integrity of policing will always be negotiable.

And so it goes.