It looks more like an LSD poster, doesn’t it? Yeah, that time is coming too. Cue even more caterwauling.

Musical Interlude

The Beatles Yellow Submarine "Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds" - unused Jeremy verse

Yesterday it was riot police marching with protestors. This is now far beyond government control. There is no telling how far it might go.

Protestors are chanting

Woman, Life, Liberty!

Get lost, [Iranian President] Raisi!

Mullahs get lost!

Death to the dictator!

Known deaths have reached 185, at least 19 of them children.

Katie Darling Ad

Yes. She went there.

A Democratic candidate for the House from Louisiana has put out a campaign ad going straight to the heart of real Family Values, with video of her in labor and then welcoming her newborn son. As Dark Brandon says,

Deal with it, Jack.

Katie Darling birth campaign video goes viral

Second Civil War vs. Third Reconstruction

There is a bogus legal hypothesis about in the land, saying that states can declare war.

Can State Governors Declare War? Mike Flynn Predicts 'Probably' Will Happen

Some of us thought that the original Civil War settled such questions, but no, the Rebels are back in force. Further, the worst of them claim that We, for various values of We (Blacks, women, scientists, immigrants, Ds in general), want to kill them all off or reduce them to slavery, and that we are doing so. Some want to shoot us quite literally, while others are following the well-worn path of subverting the plain original meaning of the Constitution and its Amendments to preserve White patriarchal Christianist Supremacy.

Our increasingly illegitimate Supreme Court has taken a case on the issue.

Also, they have taken a case on the equally illegitimate Independent State Legislature hypothesis, which says that the Constitution gives legislatures total power over selecting Presidential Electors, and that no state court or Governor can say them nay.

Listen to Ketanji Brown Jackson school the Court on US history

In a case involving voter rights, Supreme Court Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson referenced the 14th amendment and said recognizing race is an important part of constitutional law during a contentious debate with the solicitor general of Alabama.

BTW, they are simultaneously claiming that she is not Black enough, and is Waaaaay Too Black.

What We really want is to give them the best of everything available, and for them to like it this time, and not carry on about Those People at last starting to get our various fair shares. Then their states could rejoin the Union, willingly this time.

Thursday Good News: The Third Reconstruction is Coming

Bishop William Barber's book The Third Reconstruction: Moral Mondays, Fusion Politics, and the Rise of a New Justice Movement

Noooooeez!!!

Tardigrade and tiny violin

Election Deniers on the Increase

Rs leading 173 (153 running for Congress)

Close races 52

Ds leading 74

Total 299

NYT analysis

YMMV

The danger is not so much Congress (where 147 of them voted not to accept the 2020 Presidential Electors on 1/6) as long as we keep our slim majorities. The worst are candidates for Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney-General, who will be positioned to bollix state elections in 2024.

Mozambique Fighting ISIS

With help from Rwanda. The government wants to push ISIS out of the country completely.

I can’t do justice to this story here, but I can give you a taste of it.

ISIS-linked militants are threatening huge natural gas reserves the world needs badly right now

Mozambique: ISIS-linked Group Using Child Soldiers

Lions and crocodiles credited with killing ISIS insurgents fighting in Mozambique, says report

Snakes, too.

Covid Again

The Party of No, No, No!!!! is simultaneously outraged, outraged I tell you, that Biden is promoting the new bivalent vaccines and that he has not already personally ended covid.

New covid variants are coming, with a need for more vaccines.

They are equally outraged that we can treat covid with Paxlovid but not with worm medicine.

You can’t tell them the fact that covid cases and deaths are much higher in Republican, Wrong-Wing, anti-vaxxer parts of the country. That would be politicizing the disease, as opposed to, I really don’t know, whatever they think they are doing.

But then, they constantly scream that we can’t politicize any issue by telling the truth about it and explaining their hypocrisy. You know: guns, abortion, immigration, Global Warming, elections...

Oh, yeah, they don’t like Dr. Peter Hotez’s new book either—Preventing the Next Pandemic: Vaccine Diplomacy in a Time of Anti-Science.

One of the things we should be outraged about is the failure to get Paxlovid to enough seniors with covid.

NEW DELHI, Sept 29 (Reuters) - India's top court on Thursday upheld the right of a woman to an abortion up to 24 weeks into pregnancy regardless of marital status, a decision widely hailed by women's rights activists.

The Usual

White patriarchal Christianist Supremacists continue their outrages, but they are not new in October, and they are not Surprises. The only surprise to me is how much many in the media refuse to admit any of it. Eh, well, the corporate fixations on eyeballs, clicks, and profits aren’t new either. But we are making progress on getting them to do just a little bit better over time. Keep up the pressure.

Always do right. That will gratify some and astonish the rest.

Mark Twain