Applications for Oxford University Undergraduate Scholarships for Students from Developing Countries are currently ongoing. Therefore, the University of Oxford is approaching interested students to apply for the Reach Oxford Scholarships in 2023.

A number of Oxford Colleges offer Reach Oxford Scholarships (formerly Oxford Student Scholarships) to students from low-income countries who are unable to study in their own country for political or financial reasons or because standard educational institutions do not exist.

The scholarship winners will study at the University of Oxford in the UK in any course of undergraduate study except Medicine due to the length and cost of the course.

The University of Oxford, UK offers the Reach Oxford Scholarships in full financial opportunities for undergraduate students from developing countries to study for a bachelor’s degree in any course offered at the institution.

About the University of Oxford

The University of Oxford (unofficially the University of Oxford or Oxford) is a research university in Oxford, England. The founding date is not known, but there is evidence of teaching from 1096, making it the oldest university in the English-speaking world and the second oldest university in the world, which is constantly active.

It exploded in 1167 when Henry II forbade English students to visit the University of Paris. After conflicts between students and citizens of Oxford in 1209, some scholars fled northeast to Cambridge, where they founded the later University of Cambridge. The two “old colleges” are often jointly referred to as “Oxbridge”.

The University comprises a variety of institutions, including 38 constituent colleges and various university departments, organized into four departments. Basically, all faculties are autonomous institutions within the university, each of which controls its own members and has its own structures and activities.

The University of Oxford has over 30 colleges and halls offering every student a safe and supportive environment from day one.

Oxford realizes that it offers one of the best courses in the world and the competition for undergraduate institutions here is intense. On average, they receive more than 20,000 3,250 applications for approximately XNUMX positions each year.

All You Need To Know About Reach Oxford Scholarships

Host Nationality

This student grant is hosted at the University of Oxford, UK.

There are other UK scholarships available for international students in 2023. You can use these scholarship opportunities to solve most of your academic problems. Check out other scholarships you can apply for in 2023 to study in Europe, Africa, Asia, America, etc.

Level/field of study

The Reach Oxford Scholarships cover all subjects offered at the University of Oxford except Medicine. In particular, the Reach Oxford Scholarships are for undergraduate students who are already at the University of Oxford or any of Oxford College.

Eligible Nationality

Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Côte D’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Namibia, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Syria, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Scholarship Value

The Scope Scholarships 2023 covered; Tuition and university fees, a living allowance, and a round-trip airline ticket per year.

Basically, this Reach Oxford scholarship lasts for 3 or 4 years depending on the duration of the course. In addition, candidates receive approximately 2-3 per year.

Eligibility for Reach Oxford Scholarships 2023

Students from developing countries who have applied to study for undergraduate courses at the University of Oxford are eligible for this scholarship.

Therefore, below are the full eligibility and criteria for a candidate to apply for the Reach Oxford Undergraduate Scholarship;

Not all universities can offer Oxford Reach scholarships every year.

If you are accepted by a university that does not participate in the program, this will not prevent you from applying for and receiving a scholarship.

If he accepts your application, he will plan to transfer you between universities.

This program is only suitable for candidates who have received an offer and who have the highest academic ability.

Financial needs and social commitment are also important selection criteria.

Applicants must intend to return to their country of habitual residence after graduation.

Priority will be given to students who have not yet studied at the undergraduate level.

The Reach Oxford Scholarship scheme is only suitable for candidates of the highest academic ability who have excellent examination results.

However, financial need and social commitment are also important criteria for selection.

Applicants must intend to return to their country of habitual residence after their studies.

How to Apply for the Reach Oxford Full Scholarships

Students should note that they must apply to the university before we can consider them for the scholarship. The University is not in a position to consider scholarship applications for students who have not been offered a place at Oxford.

Similarly, the University is not responsible for the content of external sites advertising the program and encourages applicants to read the following information to verify eligibility.

Application to the University of Oxford for an undergraduate course through UCAS must be made by 15th October.

Full details on how to apply for the Reach Oxford Undergraduate Scholarship for 2023 Entry will be available on their scholarship page in January 2023.

Applicants are required to write an annual report on their academic and social activities and achievements at the University.

Receipt of the scholarship in subsequent years is subject to satisfactory academic progress.

Applications for entry to 2023 will open in January 2023

Notice to Applicants

Candidates should be aware that competition for the program is very strong and the University does not have additional funds for candidates for whom scholarships are not available.

Application Timeline for Reach Oxford Scholarships

The application deadline for this scholarship is 12th February 2023.

Applications must be submitted by 12 noon (UK time) on 13th February 2023

The selection process will take place in March 2023.

Applicants will be notified of the outcome of their application in April 2023.

Specifically, this scholarship is an annual program. If you don’t get it by 2023, you can also apply for the Oxford Scholarship in 2023.

Scholarship Link

For more information and application for the Reach Oxford Scholarships 2023, click on the link below.

apply here

How can you get a scholarship at Oxford University? To apply for an undergraduate scholarship at the University of Oxford, students must first be admitted to the university, especially for Reach Oxford University.

How do I get the Reach scholarship? Students should note that they must apply for admission to the University before they can be considered for the Scholarship. The university cannot consider any scholarship applications from students who have not been offered a place at Oxford.

Does Oxford award full scholarships? Yes, Oxford University actually awards full scholarships. Specifically, most of their full scholarships cover course fees and provide a living cost grant. Some of them also cover your tuition.

Can I get a full scholarship at Oxford University? If you can. A full trip is essentially a scholarship that covers all college-related expenses, including tuition, textbooks, housing, and other costs associated with attending college.