The founder of Radio and Television of a Thousand Hills is on trial in The Hague, whose work led to one of the bloodiest crimes of the 20th century – the genocide in Rwanda. Hundreds of thousands of people became its victims in 1994. The murders of the Tutsi people were coordinated with the help of local media. Its main sponsor was Felicien Kabuga.

After 1994, he fled Rwanda and hid from the international wanted list for more than twenty years. He lived on fake documents in Africa and Europe, but was eventually caught. Felicien Kabuga was detained in France two years ago. Now the case of 89-year-old Kabuga is being considered in The Hague.

“In support of the genocide, Kabuga did not need to wield a rifle or machete at the checkpoint. Rather, he supplied weapons in bulk and contributed to the training that the Interahamwe group prepared for their use. He did not need to pick up a microphone to call for the destruction of the Tutsis on the radio “, – said the prosecutor Rashid Rashid.

Founded by Félicien Kabuga, Free Radio and Television of a Thousand Hills promoted the genocide of the Tutsi people. In a hundred days, five hundred thousand million people were killed. “If you are a cockroach, you must be killed, you cannot change anything,” they said on the air of the Free Radio and Television of a Thousand Hills.

Approximately one fifth of the entire population of Rwanda became victims of the genocide. Thousands more people became refugees and were forced to seek salvation in other countries. After the calls of the propaganda “Radio of a Thousand Hills”, many Tutsis were killed not by the military or militants, but by their former neighbors. Those who showed mercy to the Tutsis were also often executed without trial. The hosts of Radio of a Thousand Hills called for this. It took years to bury most of the victims of the genocide.

In 1994, Felicien Kabuga was one of the most influential people in Rwanda. He controlled the media and headed the National Defense Fund, which raised funds to buy weapons for the combat squads. Now former civil servants are testifying against the once omnipotent Felicien Kabuga. They appear in court anonymously. “The level of propaganda of hatred and division was so high that it led to the killing of Tutsi people throughout the country,” says one of the former employees of the Rwandan information ministry.

Despite the large amount of evidence and numerous testimonies of witnesses, Felicien Kabuga does not consider himself guilty.