SEVERAL inscriptions about firearms, gun parts and arrangements for a trip to Namibia were contained in a notebook found in the guest house room of two Americans charged with murdering a young man in Windhoek near the start of 2011.

This is recorded in photocopies of pages from a notebook that became part of the evidence in the trial of American citizens Marcus Thomas and Kevan Townsend in the Windhoek High Court last week.

Thomas (37) and Townsend (36) are being prosecuted on six charges, on which they denied guilt at the start of their trial before judge Christie Liebenberg in November 2014.

The state is alleging that the two men travelled from the United States to Namibia in December 2010 to carry out a plan to murder a Namibian citizen, Andre Heckmair (25), who during 2010 had lived and worked in New York City.

Heckmair was shot dead in a car in Klein Windhoek on 7 January 2011.

A police officer who investigated the killing of Heckmair, chief inspector Felix Ndikoma, has told the court that items which police officers found in the Americans' room at a guest house where they were staying in Windhoek included two firearm barrels, a gun sound suppressor and a black notebook.

Ndikoma said he realised the notebook had disappeared from his office when an inmate at Windhoek Correctional Facility informed another police officer on 14 January 2011 that he had seen Thomas burning pages that he had torn out of a notebook which had been in a plastic police evidence bag. The inmate said Thomas had the evidence bag with the notebook with him when he returned from a police office where he had been allowed to collect some of his belongings.

Before the notebook disappeared, though, he had made photocopies of all of its pages, Ndikoma told the court.

The photocopies became part of the evidence in the trial on Thursday.

Entries on one of the photocopied pages include the notes “Book Namibia tickets” and “Get tools in place”.

On another page the first names of Heckmair's parents are written, together with the telephone number of the restaurant that Heckmair's parents owned in Windhoek and the phone number of the South African franchise under which their restaurant operated.

Several of the photocopied pages contain notes on firearm parts, such as different types of gun sound suppressors.

The notes on gun silencers include the name of a Swiss manufacturer of firearms and gun silencers, Brügger & Thomet. The name Lone Wolf, which is a supplier of accessories of Glock firearms, also features in the notes.

The gun silencer that was found in the two men's room had the name Brügger & Thomet on it, Ndikoma testified.

The court has also heard that the two firearm barrels found in the room had the logo of the manufacturer Lone Wolf on them.

Thomas' current defence lawyer, Salomon Kanyemba, has told the judge that according to Thomas he “had nothing to do” with the notebook allegedly found in his and Townsend's guest house room.

Ndikoma is due to return to the witness stand when the trial continues from 7 November.

The two accused men have been held in custody since their arrest on 7 January 2011.

Deputy prosecutor general Antonia Verhoef is representing the state.

Townsend is being defended by Mbanga Siyomunji.