by

Who is the greatest men’s tennis player of all time? It’s been a hot topic on tour for years now and for good reason. This is the golden era of men’s tennis. The three best players who ever lived are and have been playing right now; and still at the top of the rankings. Those players are Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and the recently retired Roger Federer. But who is the greatest men’s tennis player of all time?

I’m well aware that it’s hard to compare eras, the equipment is different, the money is lucrative, top players travel with physios, nutrition is different, etc. I also know that Rod Laver won a Grand Slam or 2, Pete Sampras won 14 majors, players didn’t really start playing at the Australian Open until the mid/late 80’s and it appears there aren’t as many great players as there used to be, etc.

All those arguments have some merit but to me, it’s a no-brainer, the three greatest tennis players that ever lived are playing right now and I don’t even think it’s debatable. So, who is the greatest men’s tennis player of all time?

First let’s look at the numbers:

When you examine these hard numbers you have to look a little closer at them and put some context to them. Roger Federer is about 5 and 6 years older than Nadal and Djokovic respectively. He won his first ATP title in 2001, whereas Nadal won his first in 2004 and Djokovic 2006. Federer had his most dominant period from 2004-2007 where he won an absurd 11 grand slam titles. Roger’s greatest strength is and has been his incredible consistency.

While Nadal has always been incredibly consistent winning the French Open an incomprehensible 14 times dating back to 2005; his most dominant period was 2008-2010 where he won 6 majors and completed the career grand slam.

Novak Djokovic had his first extended period of dominance from 2011-2016 where he won 11 majors and was in 7 other finals. He not only completed the career grand slam to match Federer and Nadal but he also held all four grand slam titles at the same time. Something nobody had done since Rod Laver won the grand slam in 1969. I was in Paris to witness his 2016 Roland Garros win over Andy Murray!

In the end, major title numbers will be close no matter who ends up on top. So what really sets them apart are the head to head matchups, big titles, weeks at #1 and year end #1. Those numbers may surprise you.

Djokovic vs Federer

Djokovic leads 27-23 overall, 14-6 in all Finals, 5-3 in Masters Finals and 4-1 in Grand Slam Finals. Federer’s only win came in the 2007 US Open Final which was Djokovic’s first Grand Slam Final. Djokovic leads 11-6 in all Grand Slam matches. Plus Djokovic has beaten Federer three times in the Wimbledon final without losing one. This is very significant because Federer is widely considered the greatest grass court player ever. That said, he has only beaten Djokovic once at Wimbledon-in a 2012 semifinal.

I’ve seen nearly every one of these matches. Federer won the vast majority early in the rivalry when Djokovic was young and not yet established. Djokovic has dominated in the last decade. He’s taken the head to head lead and more importantly-winning the biggest matches, the finals.

While most of their matches over the years have been very competitive, none have been better than the 2019 Wimbledon final. In my opinion, it’s the greatest match I’ve ever seen. In the end, Djokovic prevailed as he has so often in the biggest matches versus Federer.

Advantage Djokovic

Djokovic vs Nadal

Djokovic leads 30-29 overall, 15-13 in all Finals, they’re tied 3-3 in Masters Finals and Nadal leads 5-4 in Grand Slam Finals. Novak has beaten Nadal in all 4 Grand Slams including Roland Garros twice where Nadal has won 13 titles and only lost 3 matches since 2005. Nadal leads Djokovic 8-2 overall at the French but only 2 men have ever beaten him in Paris. Federer never beat Nadal at the French Open in 6 opportunities including 4 finals along with two semifinals.

These are perhaps the most entertaining matches in the history of tennis. I’ve been fortunate to witness several in person. The most interesting thing in this rivalry is that Nadal leads on clay 20-8. 8 losses to Djokovic is more on clay than Federer, Murray, Wawrinka and basically everyone else combined.

These two guys play a similar style of baseline counter-punching. This has produced some of the greatest matches in tennis history. Their 2012, nearly 6-hour Australian Open final to me is one of the top 2-3 greatest matches ever played-surely the most physical match I’ve ever seen. Every match is a battle.

Advantage Djokovic (but just barely)

Nadal vs Federer

Nadal leads 24-16 overall, 14-10 in all Finals, 7-5 in Masters Finals and 6-3 in Grand Slam Finals. Rafa beat Federer in Finals in Australia, Roland Garros and Wimbledon. Federer beat him in Australia and Wimbledon twice but is 0-6 at the French and only 2-7 in clay Finals and 2-14 overall on clay.

This is a tough one for any Federer fan to swallow because Nadal basically has owned Federer over the years. Yes Roger has won 6 of the last 7 meetings to narrow the gap a bit but his inability to beat Rafa on clay and never beat him in Paris, never even taking him to 5 sets at Roland Garros, definitely hurts his case.

These two have played some great matches over the years including 5 sets in the 2007 and 2008 Wimbledon final. The 2008 match is widely considered the greatest match ever although I think the 2019 final eclipsed it. Their 2009 and 2017 Australian Open finals were also great. Plus, they’ve had some great Masters matches. The 2006 Rome final was amazing, although in the end, as usual, Nadal won on clay.

Advantage Nadal

So, who is the greatest men’s tennis player of all time? After really examining the numbers and the fact that I’ve meticulously watched these 3 warriors for the last 20 years: I can make an argument for and against each of them for being the greatest of all time but in my mind-here are the bottom line arguments.

Roger Federer has 20 grand slam titles and was unbelievably consistent for 20 years. But his inability to beat Rafael Nadal consistently and basically at all on clay hurts his case massively. How can you be the best of all-time if you cannot beat or even really challenge your biggest rival at Roland Garros in 6 tries. Especially when Nadal beat Federer at Wimbledon and took him to 5 another time in a final. He’s also 1-4 versus Djokovic in major finals including 0-3 at his beloved Wimbledon.

Rafael Nadal is unquestionably the greatest clay court player of all time. In fact, his dominance on clay may be the most dominant thing in any sport-ever. Of his 92 titles, 64 are on clay. Of his 22 majors, 14 are French Opens. Nothing against his amazing clay court prowess but it overshadows the rest of his game; which is also great. But he is not the best all court player of the 3 men and he has a losing record to Djokovic. Nadal has also never won a World Tour Finals title although he does have Olympic gold.

Novak Djokovic took his lumps from Federer and Nadal early on in his career, learned, waited patiently and then took over. His peak was and is better than any player-ever. More importantly, he wins finals against his biggest rivals. He is 30-20 in all finals against Federer and Nadal. Plus, he has a winning record against them both. He has beaten Federer at Wimbledon three times in the final and has beaten Rafa twice at Roland Garros. He, along with Nadal, has won the career grand slam twice.

Additionally, he is the only person ever to win all 9 Masters 1000 events-that cannot be understated-and he’s done it twice. He is the all time leader at weeks at #1 by a massive margin. Plus, he’s the youngest of the group and he’s not done yet. Barring injury or more Covid restrictions, he’ll add more titles to continue his assault on the other guys.

It’s worth pointing out he was also robbed of a shot at Wimbledon in 2020 where he was the 2 time defending champion because of Covid. Not to mention, the humiliating Australian Open 2022 vaccine fiasco where he was detained and unable to defend his 3 consecutive titles once again. Nadal ended up winning that tournament without having to face Djokovic. He was also the victim of a stupid (on his part) default at the US Open in 2020. I believe he would’ve won them all (one or two for sure) and would’ve prevented Nadal from winning #21 in Australia.

Federer is now retired. Nadal is simply amazing and could add another French or US. However, each French is an opportunity for Djokovic to steal one and cement his legacy.

All that said, I can tentatively say that Novak Djokovic is the greatest men’s tennis player of all time! But Nadal is making a late charge, so who knows where this argument stands at the end of the year. I know each could add to their numbers. But at this point in time, I believe that the greatest of all time is Novak Djokovic and I have the numbers to prove it.

As a Federer loyalist that hurts to say, but sometimes the truth hurts. In the end, many of the victory numbers will more or less even out. However for me, Novak Djokovic will end with the most weeks at #1, may have the most majors, Masters 1000’s, and has the head to head advantage for now. He consistently beats his biggest rivals in the biggest matches on all surfaces. He’s the best all surface player in history and I don’t think thats arguable. That’s the bottom line as to why Djokovic is the greatest men’s tennis player of all time. What do you think?

Sharing is caring!