The chief propagandist whose Thousand Hills Radio called for massacres in Rwanda is on trial in The Hague. He has been in hiding for over 20 years. But he got caught

THIS MESSAGE (MATERIAL) IS CREATED AND (OR) DISTRIBUTED BY A FOREIGN MASS MEDIA PERFORMING THE FUNCTIONS OF A FOREIGN AGENT AND (OR) A RUSSIAN LEGAL ENTITY PERFORMING THE FUNCTIONS OF A FOREIGN AGENT.

Save Medusa!

https://support.meduza.io

Felicien Kabuga in the search database for people suspected of genocide

Felicien Kabuga, 89, is on trial in The Hague, a Rwandan businessman accused of funding armed groups and political organizations responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide. Then, according to various estimates, from 500 thousand to a million people died. Kabuga has been hiding from justice for over 20 years. He was arrested in 2020 near Paris.

People’s genocide preceded by a civil war in Rwanda, which began in 1990 and ended with a peace agreement in the summer of 1993. The conflict escalated again in the spring of 1994, when Rwandan President Juvénal Habyarimana’s plane was shot down on approach to Kigali, the country’s capital. This was followed by massacres of civilians, hostilities resumed in the country.

Around the same years, the propaganda radio station “Free Radio and Television of a Thousand Hills” began to broadcast. It quickly gained popularity among young people and by 1994 had switched to a 24-hour broadcast format.

Radio station staff were exclusively , and its information policy was to incite hatred towards Tutsis. In radio broadcasts of people directly identified as Tutsis or as “accomplices” . Their addresses were given there. The radio broadcast misanthropic messages comparing Tutsis to cockroaches. Prosecutor’s office (MOMUT) states that the activity of the radio station was one of the main causes of the genocide.

Felicien Kabuga is credited as the founder and main sponsor of Radio of a Thousand Hills. In addition, he is accused of supporting the Interahamwe, an armed group that committed massacres of civilians. It is assumed that Kabuga provided these groups with material, logistical and financial support, in particular, bought hundreds of thousands of machetes and other weapons for militants.

The Rwandan Patriotic Front captured Kigali in July 1994. Felicien Kabuga fled the country. He was on the run for 23 years, becoming one of the most wanted criminals in the world.

According to Stephen Rapp, former chief prosecutor for the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, Kabuga fled to Switzerland in 1994, where he sought asylum. After that, he was seen in several other European countries. He eventually settled in Kenya, where he lived until 1997, when a UN tribunal presented he was formally charged under articles of genocide, public incitement to genocide, conspiracy to commit genocide and crimes against humanity.

In 2001, a UN court froze his bank accounts, and in 2002, the US government offered a $5 million reward for Kabuga’s capture. However, until 2020, he managed to avoid arrest – until he was detained French authorities in a rented house near Paris. A representative of the tribunal then said that law enforcement agencies were able to locate Kabuga by tracing calls from his relatives. The arrest was preceded by a lengthy international investigation involving French, Belgian and British police.

After his arrest, Kabugu was supposed to be taken to Arusha, the capital of Tanzania, where the headquarters of the UN Tribunal for Rwanda is located, but medical experts agreed that his transportation could endanger his health. The trial was moved to The Hague. Due to the age of the defendant, the hearings will be held only three times a week and only two hours a day.

The New York Times writes that the trial of Félicien Kabuga is likely to be the last major case for the Rwanda Tribunal, which officially closed in 2016. During its work, the court considered about 80 cases, in which high-ranking government officials and the military were accused. The Tribunal delivered over 60 judgments. In total, after the events of 1994, thousands of defendants appeared before the courts of various instances.

Felicien Kabuga refuses to plead guilty. His opening speech defense named the claims of the prosecutor’s office are unfounded, saying that Kabuga was a simple businessman who was embroiled in a large-scale conflict.

Genocide in Rwanda. What have we written about this before?