Robbery and Serious Crime Squad detectives have charged a man as part of ongoing investigations into a spate of alleged car jackings, and armed robberies committed at gunpoint in Sydney’s north-west at the weekend.

Investigators from the State Crime Command’s Robbery and Serious Crime Squad – assisted by officers from The Hills Police Area Command – established Strike Force Bellinger to investigate a number of motor vehicle thefts and assaults which occurred in the early hours of Saturday 8 January 2022. They include;

About 3.15am, two males armed with handguns approached a man and woman – aged 58 and 59 – travelling inside a black BMW 640i as they drove into the driveway of a West Pennant Hills home. It’s alleged the males demanded the keys to the vehicle before smashing the passenger’s side window and stealing a handbag, then fleeing in a black Lexus sedan.

About 3.35am, a 37-year-old man was approached by two males and threatened with a firearm, then assaulted, as he exited a service station on Windsor Road at Northmead. It’s alleged one of the males then fled in a white Hyundai, while the second male left the scene in the man’s black Range Rover Evoque.

About 3.50am, a 36-year-old man had stopped his white Hyundai on the side of Prospect Highway, Blacktown, when two vehicles approached his car and stopped; preventing him from driving off. Police have been told two males – armed with a machete and handgun – then forced the man into one of their vehicles, as a third male stole the Hyundai. It’s alleged the duo then made a range of demands for cash and other property, before he was eventually released near Girraween.

Crime scenes were established at multiple locations and several items were seized by investigators – including the stolen Lexus and Range Rover – which were located abandoned later that day and have since undergone forensic examination.

Following extensive inquiries, strike force investigators arrested a 24-year-old man on O’Connor Street in Lithgow just before 2pm yesterday (Tuesday 11 January 2022).

With assistance from local police, a search warrant was then executed at a Mount Wilson address, where investigators located and seized clothing and other items, which will undergo further forensic examination.

The man was taken to Lithgow Police Station and has since been charged with destroy property in company use fire, three counts of robbery while armed with dangerous weapon and take/detain person in company with intent to obtain advantage.

The Mount Wilson man was refused bail to appear at Lithgow Local Court today (Wednesday 12 January 2022).

Investigations under Strike Force Bellinger continue.

Anyone with information that may assist Strike Force Bellinger investigators is urged to contact Crime Stoppers: 1800 333 000 or https://nsw.crimestoppers.com.au. Information is treated in strict confidence. The public is reminded not to report information via NSW Police social media pages.