PPA Code of Ethics ×

By submitting this application today you agree to comply with PPA’s Code of Ethics as well as PPA's Terms and Conditions as listed below:

Professional Photographers of America (PPA) Code of Ethics

As a requirement for admission to and retention of membership and participation in this photographic association, each PPA member and participant shall agree to use the highest levels of professionalism, honesty and integrity in all relationships with colleagues, clients and the general public.

Terms & Conditions

$17.50 of domestic dues ($42.00 non-domestic) is applied to Professional Photographer magazine and is not deductible from dues. U.S. and Canadian members receive both the print and digital versions of the magazine each month. International members receive the electronic edition of Professional Photographer magazine unless they request a printed version. Payments or contributions to Professional Photographers of America, Inc., are not deductible as charitable contributions for Income Tax purposes. Payments may be deductible as an ordinary and necessary business expense if you are in a photography related business. Please consult your own tax advisor. Submission of this application indicates your agreement to follow and abide by the policies and procedures and the Code of Ethics of the Professional Photographers of America. Membership commences upon receipt of payment and is for one year. Dues subject to change. Dues include $10 per non-international member as the Copyright Protection Fund assessment.

Information for Monthly Credit Card Option Applicants:

By submitting a monthly credit card option application, I understand that PPA will charge my credit card monthly. I understand that I will pay an additional $1.00 per month for bank processing fees included in the dues amounts in this application. The monthly charge will appear on my credit card statements as Professional Photographers of America and the statement will act as a receipt. PPA will notify me of any dues or membership changes and will automatically renew my membership. I can at any time resign from PPA and stop charges being made to my credit card. Any payments made prior to that are nonrefundable. A resignation must be received in writing, fax or email. Emailed resignation must come from the email address contained in the member's record, include their name and PPA ID number. I agree to inform PPA of any changes made to my credit card, such as a change in my account number. If PPA is unable to successfully make a charge to my credit card, PPA will contact me to make any changes or corrections to my record. If PPA is unable to successfully process my monthly payment, my membership will be considered void, and I am required to pay the balance in full to reinstate my membership. PPA is not responsible for any overdraft or bank fees charged to the member if a debit card is used for membership dues payments.