Pacuare River is a haven for whitewater rafting in Costa Rica.

Day 1 Explore the streets and historic buildings of San Jose Day 2 Start the day with a scenic drive to La Cruz and paddle through the first section of Pacuare River Day 3 Spend another day rafting in Pacuare River and transfer to La Fortuna in the evening Day 4 Prepare for an adventurous day in Arenal Volcano National Park Day 5 Road trip to Manuel Antonio National Park and enjoy a day at the beach Day 6 Explore Manuel Antonio National Park and surroundings independently Day 7 Make time for some other activities in the national park before you head to San Jose Day 8 Depart from San Jose

This Costa Rican adventure tour offers an unmatched way to discover the country’s sublime rainforests, with an unforgettable whitewater rafting experience extending 3 days along the Pacuare River. Once reaching Arenal Volcano National Park, you’ll encounter life up in the canopy and delve even deeper into jungle habitats en route to the always breathtaking La Fortuna waterfall. The area is famous for adrenaline activities such as a canopy zip-line tour, ATV tour, or canyoning. Pick your adventure! The adventure ends on the pristine Pacific coast beaches of Manuel Antonio National Park with time for some well-earned sun, sea, and sand.

An overview map of the routes of 7-day Costa Rica itineraries

7 days in Costa Rica offers the opportunity to explore some of this Central American nation’s most phenomenal natural sights. Whether it’s hiking through the rainforest, a leisurely beach time, a relaxing dip in the natural hot springs, or an exciting session of whitewater rafting, we know you’ll join the host of travelers who has already fallen for this incredible country. In case you want a little bit more about the country, why not check out our guide on 10 days or 14 days in Costa Rica? If you are short on time, check out our guide on 5 days in Costa Rica instead.

Feel free to reach out to our local travel experts who can help you design your personalized trip to Costa Rica.