Beautiful African women are a fine balance of beauty, talent, and intelligence. The strong-willed women have impeccable skin, gorgeous hair, and personalities that leave the world in awe of them. In addition, the confidence they emanate in their skin and the unconditional self-love of African women have inspired women worldwide to love themselves unapologetically.

From famous jazz singers to writers, musicians, supermodels, and actors, beautiful African women are making a mark in every field. Here are some of our favorite African women who have inspired the world to level up. Scroll down to check out our list!

1. Zozibini Tunzi

Date Of Birth: 18 September, 1993

18 September, 1993 Place Of Birth: Tsolo, Eastern Cape, South Africa

Tsolo, Eastern Cape, South Africa Height: 5’10

5’10 Profession: Model

The newest Miss Universe, Zozibini Tunzi, holds the honor of being the third woman from South Africa to win the title and the first black woman to do so since 2011. She is an activist who aims to put an end to gender-based violence. At the young age of 26, she is working hard to change the perceptions around prevailing gender stereotypes. The modern world needs more inspiring women like Tunzi.

2. Jawahir Ahmed

Date Of Birth: 1991

Place Of Birth: Logan, Utah, USA

Height: 5’8

Profession: Model

This African woman is the definition of smart and beautiful. With the dream to serve as a health advisor to Engineers Without Borders, she hopes to bring change in the world any way she can. Jawahir is signed to the Stars Talent Group Modelling Agency. She represented Somalia in the Miss Africa Utah pageant in 2013, which she won.

3. Atong Demach

Date Of Birth: 16th June, 1988

Place Of Birth: Malakal, South Sudan

Height: 5’10

Profession: Model

Atong Demach, a South Sudanese businesswoman, is yet another African woman with both beauty and brains. She has strived for success from an early age and is extremely hardworking. She won the title of Miss World Africa in 2011.

4. Joelle Kayembe

Date Of Birth: 31st May, 1983

Place Of Birth: Congo, Africa

Height: 5’9

Profession: Actor, Model

Joelle is best known for her role as Zina in the 2013 film Zulu. She started her career in acting at the young age of 19. She is highly admired by her fellow stars for her perseverance to work and grow as an actor.

5. Adaora Akubilo

Date Of Birth: 1987

Place Of Birth: Nigeria

Height: 5’11

Profession: Model

Adaora Akubilo is deeply attached to her native land, Nigeria. She spent a long time learning about her land and culture before she got signed by a modeling agency. She is one of the fittest models in the world and has appeared in the 2012 and 2013 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Editions.

6. Dillish Mathews

Date Of Birth: 16th September, 1990

Place Of Birth: Namibia, Africa

Height: 6’1

Profession: Actor, Model

Dillish Mathews is popularly known for participating in the reality television series Big Brother. She is a student of psychology and has been fond of education since she was 7. She has done various photo shoots to kickstart her modeling career.

7. Lupita Nyongo’o

Date Of Birth: 1st March, 1983

Place Of Birth: Mexico City, Mexico

Height: 5’5

Profession: Actress

Though she was born in Mexico, Lupita grew up in Kenya. She graduated with a degree in Film and Theater Studies from Hampshire College. She is renowned for her bold and beautiful features that make her stand out in a crowd. In 2014, People’sMagazine named her “The Most Beautiful Woman.”

8. Nonhle Thema

Date Of Birth: 15th October, 1981

Place Of Birth: South Africa

Height: 5’9

Profession: TV presenter?, actress?, and producer

Nonhle Thema, a South African woman, is a famous television personality. She has been in showbiz for quite some time and has made her mark in the TV world as a star.

9. Thandie Newton

Date Of Birth: 6th November 1972

Place Of Birth: Zambia

Height: 5’6

Profession: Actor

Thandie Newton is popularly known for starring in iconic films, such as Mission: Impossible 2 and Solo: A Star Wars Story. She is widely renowned for her acting prowess. She states that from an early age, she was subjected to racism for being black. She often got picked on at school. All of this made her stronger and come back with more confidence. More power to her!

10. Miriam Chemmoss

Year Of Birth: 1977

Place Of Birth: Kenya

Height: 5’4

Profession: Musician and artist

Miriam is a supremely talented performing artist from East Africa. She grew up in Kenya and Tanzania where she was actively involved in music and theater programs. She has performed at many music festivals and become a favorite among the general African population. Miriam’s music is a beautiful blend of R&B and hip-hop music.

11. Isha Sesay

Date Of Birth: 6th January 1976

Place Of Birth: Bordeaux, France

Height: 5’8

Profession: Journalist

This intellectual and fiercely gorgeous woman has worked with CNN as an anchor for the longest time. She is of Sierra Leonean and British descent. She is a popular media personality who has strong opinions on important subjects such as racial and gender equality.

12. Nadia Buari

Date Of Birth: 21st November, 1982

Place Of Birth: Ghana

Profession: Actor

Nadia Buari, a Ghanaian actress, has been nominated twice for Best Actress in a Leading Role by the Africa Movie Academy. A well-known actress in Nollywood, Nadia is widely respected for her work and contribution to the Nigerian film industry.

13. Leila Lopes

Date Of Birth: 26th February, 1986

Place Of Birth: Angola

Height: 5’10

Profession: Actress and TV hostess

Angola is famously known as the home of some of the most beautiful women in the world. One of them happens to be Leila Lopes. She is widely recognized for her remarkable beauty. Leila has made her mark in the modeling world by bagging the titles of Miss Angola UK 2010, Miss Angola 2010, and Miss Universe 2011.

14. Honorine Uwera

Date Of Birth: 30th July, 1990

Place Of Birth: Rwanda

Height: 5’10

Profession: Model

This young woman from Rwanda immigrated to Canada in the late ‘90s. She began her modeling career at the early age of 16. She worked with the reputed model Naomi Campbell in the Roca Wear Spring 2005 campaign.

15. Lorraine Van Wyk

Date Of Birth: 24th September, 1981

Place Of Birth: Belville, South Africa

Height: 5’9

Profession: Model and social media personality

This African beauty began her career by appearing in advertisements and commercials. She moved to London at an early age to pursue her dream of acting. It was not too long before she got featured on the cover of the famous Maxim magazine in the Netherlands. Soon after, she bagged the title of Model of the Year in both 2003 and 2004.

16. Nyasha Matonhodze

Date Of Birth: 31st July, 1995

Place Of Birth: Harare, Zimbabwe

Height: 5’11

Profession: Model

Nyasha hails from a simple family in Zimbabwe. She was raised by her grandmother and received a humble upbringing. She then moved to London to live with her mother. Due to her tall and lean physique, she was often told to try her hand at modeling. At the young age of 14, she got signed by the popular Elite Modeling Agency.

17. Genevieve Nnaji

Date Of Birth: 3rd May, 1979

Place Of Birth: Mbaise, Nigeria

Height: 5’5

Profession: Actress, model, and singer

Genevieve Nnaji was born and raised in Lagos. She is one of the highest-paid actresses in Nigeria. She has won several awards for her outstanding performances, including the African Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role in 2005.

18. Kandyse McClure

Date Of Birth: 22nd March, 1980

Place Of Birth: Durban, South Africa

Height: 5’0

Profession: Actress

Kandyse McClure, a Canadian actress, is popularly known for her role as Anastasia Dualla in Battlestar Galactica. She also stars in the Netflix original series, Hemlock Grove. Kandyse is on a mission to wipe out poverty. She works with an NGO called CARE to help drive out poverty in Third World countries.

19. Ella Thomas

Year Of Birth: 1981

Place Of Birth: Asmara, Eritrea

Height: 5’10

Profession: Actress, model, and producer

Ella Thomas moved to Germany at a very young age. She was extremely interested in performing arts and actively took part in school plays. Her skills were recognized, and she was encouraged to pursue a career in acting. She made her Hollywood film debut alongside Bruce Willis in Surrogates.

20. Megalyn Echikunwoke

Date Of Birth: 28th May 1983

Place Of Birth: Spokane, Washington

Height: 5’7

Profession: Actress

Though Megalyn Echikunwoke hails from the US, she is of Nigerian descent. Her grandfather was a reputed tribal leader in Nigeria, thus making her African royalty. Megalyn is famous for her role in CSI: Miami as Tara Price.

21. Michelle Van Der Water

Year Of Birth: 1978

Place Of Birth: Cape Town, South Africa

Height: 5’6

Profession: Actress

Michelle Van Der Water was born in South Africa but raised in Australia. She graduated from Wollongong University with a Bachelor’s degree in Creative Arts and Graphic Design. She soon started taking acting classes. Michelle then moved to Los Angeles to pursue a career in acting. She appeared on NCIS: Los Angeles in 2009.

22. Ajuma Nasanyana

gettyimages

Date Of Birth: 16th August, 1984

Place Of Birth: Lodwar, Kenya

Height: 5’10

Profession: Model

Ajuma Nasanyana was intrigued by the world of modeling at a very young age. Lucky for her, her body type was the perfect fit. Her friends and family pushed her toward her goals. She participated in the Miss Kenya Tourism pageant in 2003. She won the pageant and was crowned Miss Nairobi. She received a lot of exposure during this event and was soon signed up by Surazuri Modeling Agency.

23. Fatima Siad

Date Of Birth: 17th December, 1986

Place Of Birth: Somalia

Height: 5’8

Profession: Model

Fatima Siad hails from a humble family. She was passionate about modeling ever since she was a little girl. She has been recognized for her patience and hard work by her fellow model friends. She is currently signed with IMG Models in New York City, Paris, and Milan.

24. Helen Getachew

Date Of Birth: 13th January 1990

Place Of Birth: Ethiopia

Height: 5’9

Profession: Model

Helen Getachew is the epitome of grace, wisdom, and beauty. She was crowned Queen of Ethiopia in 2012 and is considered to be one of the most beautiful Ethiopian women.

25. Yemi Alade

Date Of Birth: 13th March, 1989

Place Of Birth: Nigeria

Profession: Musician

Yemi Alade has loved singing for as long as she can remember. She is a famous Nigerian singer as well as a songwriter. She got her big break on the Peak Talent Show in 2009. She is known to draw attention with her beauty, voice, and moves.

26. Jackie Appiah

Date Of Birth: 5th December 1983

Place Of Birth: Ghana

Profession: Actress

Jackie Appiah’s beauty is definitely captivating. She has gained lots of recognition for her acting work. Jackie grabbed the award for Best Actress in a Leading Role in the 2007 Africa Movie Academy Awards. She is also considered to be one of the most beautiful women in the African film industry.

African women are truly blessed with attractive personalities and talent. They pushed their limits and succeeded in their life with their hard work. This list of the top 10 most beautiful African women comprises the actresses and women celebrities from every corner of Africa. They left their mark everywhere, from modeling to acting to writing with their effort. We hope that this article helped you get inspired by the most talented and successful African women celebrities.

Frequently Asked Questions

How does Africa define beauty?

In Africa, beauty is defined in terms of virtue as well as physical appeal. It goes beyond good looks and takes into account the good character of a person.

Which tribe has the most beautiful ladies in Africa?

The Himba tribe is said to have the most beautiful ladies in Africa. This tribe’s women are admired for their strength and beauty.

Was this article helpful?

Related