When the leaders of Denmark’s main political parties faced each other in the first television debate of the election campaign last week, they did not agree on well-known party lines.

But there was one issue they could all agree on and that united left and right: a controversial plan to outsource asylum seekers from Denmark to Rwanda.

Last year, the Danes passed new laws to make such a move possible in the first place, and in late summer, the government of center-left Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen signed an agreement with the Rwandan government to extend the possibility of sending “spontaneous asylum seekers.” to examine together”. who come to Denmark in Rwanda “to examine asylum applications and protection and the possibility of settling down in Rwanda.”

Although there is still no formal agreement between the two countries, this is clearly the direction of travel, with the entire program looking very much like a policy that the British government is trying to get off the ground — so far without success.

In April this year, then-British Prime Minister Boris Johnson announced an agreement with Rwanda, according to which people who enter Britain illegally would be illegally deported to the African country. In exchange for Rwanda accepting them, Rwanda will receive millions of pounds of development aid. Deportees may only apply for asylum in Rwanda, not in Great Britain.

Opponents argued that it was illegal and inhumane to send people thousands of kilometers to a country they don’t want to live in, and so far no flights have left the UK for Rwanda following legal action before the European Court of Human Rights.

Yet the new British government wants to act unabated — with Home Secretary Suella Braverman recently saying it was her “dream” to see headlines about flights by asylum seekers heading to Rwanda just in time for Christmas.

Denmark’s Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen arrives on Friday, October 7, 2022, for an EU summit at Prague Castle in Prague, Czech Republic Credit: AP

Why does Denmark want to send asylum seekers abroad?

The idea of sending asylum seekers to a third country for processing is not the first time that Denmark has outsourced a “problem.”

In April, Denmark signed a 15-million-euro agreement with Kosovo to accept 300 prisoners.

The inmates who are sent to a facility near the capital city of Pristina are all foreign prisoners who are to be deported after their sentence.

Why So — before the parliamentary elections in Denmark on November 1 — why did this particular issue bring together politicians from the left and right of Denmark?

The answer is simple: voting.

“It is true that we have a Social Democratic prime minister, Mette Frederiksen, and she is currently fighting to maintain this position. And the important detail is that she has relatively successfully won voters from the [far-right] Danish People’s Party,” explained Ditte Brasso Sørensen, senior fellow at the Europa Think Tank in Copenhagen.

While the Danish People’s Party is no longer such a strong player in Danish politics, its cloak was taken up by the Danish Democrats instead — so it was perhaps an obvious move for Prime Minister Frederiksen, who is already on the right side of the Nordic Social Democratic spectrum — and leaders from other left-wing parties to try to win over some of these voters by going further to the right themselves.

“It’s not just Rwanda, every time Frederiksen gives a speech, she always includes a sentence saying, “We must be tough on young migrants who live in Denmark and aren’t sufficiently integrated,” she has this information that she can give voters,” Brasso Sørensen told voters,” Brasso Sørensen told voters CNNBreakingNews. net.

“It is rather disappointing that they had the first debate among party leaders and were all asked about their position on Rwanda and had different viewpoints — but the entire political center and the entire right want to push ahead with this plan.”

Menschen versammeln sich, um auf dem Schlossplatz Christiansborg in Kopenhagen für Migranten zu demonstrieren Bildnachweis: Emil Helms/AP

How does the government justify Rwanda’s plan?



The TheThe Danish government has presented the Rwanda asylum plan as a solution to a “broken” system, and since they have an EU opt-out on justice and home affairs issues, they say they are not bound by EU cooperation on migration, asylum and border policies.

“We are working hard to create a fairer asylum system and we are slowly but steadily moving closer. At the same time, it is important that we do not rush things, but ensure that we thoroughly reach an agreement that is in line with Denmark and Rwanda’s international obligations, which is crucial for both countries,” said Kaare Dybvad, Denmark’s Minister of Immigration and integration, told CNNBreakingNews.net.

Minister Dybvad said that his country “wants to find solutions for creating a fairer and more humane asylum system based on orderly and controlled migration, as opposed to the trend that is playing into the hands of people smugglers.”

Critics of the plan say there are real risks if the path of outsourcing the Danish asylum process continues.

“There is an increased chance of arresting people in this process or sending them to Rwanda by force, and that is not surprising, as most people who come to Denmark for asylum will not agree to go to Rwanda instead,” said Eva Singer of the Danish Refugee Council.

“The entire civil society has criticized this, and all other organizations working with refugees in Denmark have criticized it very clearly from the start,” she told CNNBreakingNews.net.

Another problematic area is Rwanda’s sad human rights record, and the East African nation has been harshly criticized by Human Rights Watch for arbitrary detention, mistreatment and torture of government political opponents, and the NGO has highlighted how fair the judicial standards are “in many sensitive political cases are routinely disregarded.”

“Arbitrary detention and mistreatment of street children, sex workers and small sellers is widespread,” says HRW in its latest Rwanda country report.

“The UHCR has criticized it very strongly with direct language. The African Union made a very strong statement and criticized the model “(the Addis Ababa-based organization described the plan as “xenophobic and completely unacceptable”) “EU Commissioner Ylva Johansson was also very critical,” Singer added.

Johansson, EU Commissioner for Home Affairs, described the Danish plan as “completely unrealistic” and “a blatant crime against basic human rights.”

Then-British Home Secretary Priti Patel speaks after London and Kigali reach agreement to send asylum seekers to Rwanda Have Muhizi Olivier/Copyright 2022 The AP. All rights reserved.

Will the Rwandan asylum proposal ever actually come into force?

Although the government is arguing for the prospect of a deal with Rwanda, and although other political parties were in favour of it during the election campaign, it may never really come to fruition.

First, there are many unanswered questions that ministers will not answer: how much the program would cost and how they would successfully resolve the inevitable legal objections before the European Court of Human Rights.

“In the end, this opposition could mean that something like this never happens,” said Ditte Brasso Sørensen.

“If it never happens, I think this is a loss that any of the new prime minister candidates can suffer because they have still served their purpose of pointing out that they are handling migration hard and that they have a solution to these problems.”

While political efforts are being made to continue to push for some kind of outsourcing plan, there is also political realism as to whether the initiative would actually solve the problem it is intended to solve: namely whether it would reduce the number of asylum seekers arriving in Denmark.

“It will still give the new prime minister a headache,” said Brasso Sørensen.