Newsmatics publishes thousands of media monitoring websites covering all countries of the world, including Russia and Belarus. Newsmatics has no affiliation with Russia, Belarus or investment from these two countries. In reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine we have stopped including any Russian pro-government sources such as RT or Sputnik in our search results. We have also stopped accepting any press releases from Russian and Belarusian government institutions or state companies.

Today’s remarkable vote at the United Nations General Assembly is a powerful reminder that the overwhelming majority of nations stand with Ukraine, in defense of the UN Charter, and in resolute opposition to Russia’s ongoing war against Ukraine and its …

Today’s remarkable vote at the United Nations General Assembly is a powerful reminder that the overwhelming majority of nations stand with Ukraine, in defense of the UN Charter, and in resolute opposition to Russia’s ongoing war against Ukraine and its …

Russia extends deadline for foreign shares traded outside of Russia NEW YORK, Oct. 13, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- With a November 11, 2022 deadline approaching, Marc Zboch of Emergent Global Capital is urging investors to convert their United States- …

AFGHANISTAN, October 13 - Karolina Hird, Riley Bailey, Grace Mappes, George Barros, and Frederick W. Kagan October 12, 7:45pm ET Click here to see ISW’s interactive map of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This map is updated daily alongside the static …

AZERBAIJAN, October 13 - 13 october 2022, 18:10 President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev has met with President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin in Astana. Greeting, the President of Azerbaijan, President Vladimir Putin said: Dear Ilham …

RUSSIA, October 12 - Russian Energy Week, a major international forum, has started in Moscow. Its central event was the address by President of Russia Vladimir Putin. Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak met with energy ministers of Russia’s foreign …

TAJIKISTAN, October 13 - On October 13, 2022, at the initiative of the Russian side, a joint meeting of the President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon, the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin and the President of the Kyrgyz …

AFGHANISTAN, October 13 - Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, October 13 Karolina Hird, Kateryna Stepanenko, Katherine Lawlor, and Frederick W. Kagan October 13, 9:15 pm ET Click here to see ISW’s interactive map of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This …

U.S. consumer inflation excluding energy and food accelerated to a four-decade high in September. (WSJ) Inflation that started in goods supply chains is shifting into the service sector. (WSJ) Initial U.S. jobless claims rose by a modest 9,000 last week. ( …

Comment on this story Comment Good morning and welcome to The Climate 202! We made it to Friday. To celebrate, we're re-watching this video of 747, who was crowned the winner of Fat Bear Week on Tuesday despite attempted voter fraud. 🐻 But first: …

Breadcrumb Trail Links Local News Sounds like faith in the future to me, something we could all use a bit of right now. A pair of combines work together to get a crop off just east of Moose Jaw on Monday, September 12, 2022. Photo by TROY FLEECE / …

An unprecedented drought has hit Eastern Africa following failed rains in at least four seasons. Millions of lives are at risk in several parts of Kenya, Somalia and Ethiopia. Farming activities have also been disrupted. Dr Chimimba David Phiri, the Food …

Argentina national football team players celebrate during an international match. Photo Courtesy: AP The 35-year-old Lionel Messi will make his final World Cup appearance in the upcoming edition in Qatar. The Argentine star footballer confirmed his …

By Tushar Bhaduri It has been 20 years since a non-European (read South American) team lifted the FIFA World Cup. A Ronaldo-inspired Brazil triumphed in the Far East in 2002, and Italy, Spain, Germany and France have since been on top of the world in the …

A picture taken on October 7, 2022 shows a rice field in Chengdu, Southwest China's Sichuan Province. The Chinese characters read "Celebrate the bumper harvest, welcome the grand event," as the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of …

The Syrian regime of Bashar Al-Assad has signed new agreements to purchase and import wheat from its ally, Russia, as Syria's domestic wheat yield and supplies continue to be insufficient this year. According to the regime-owned news outlet, Tishreen, …

LONDON - Europe needs to pay up to import liquefied natural gas, pray for a mild winter and cut energy demand as any sabotage of infrastructure or even deeper cuts to Russian supply would make power rationing or blackouts all but inevitable. Even if Europe …

Financial Times writers Roman Olearchyk, Mehul Srivastava, Max Seddon, and Christopher Miller reported today that, “Vladimir Putin has described Russia’s massive airstrikes on Ukraine, its most extensive since the early weeks of his seven-month invasion, …

Tuesday October 11 2022 Turkana Governor Jeremiah Lomorukai kicking off relief food distribution programme for Turkana East Sub County at Lotiman village on October 9, 2022. PHOTO | SAMMY LUTTA | NMG Kenya’s economic growth slowed for the fourth …

With Oct. 1 marking the beginning of a new water year, Mendocino County officials reported recently that local water districts are preparing for what could be another dry year. In the latest update from the Mendocino County Water Agency, local water …

(Bloomberg) -- Kenya’s economic growth slowed for a fourth straight quarter as its worst drought in at least 40 years and pre-election jitters weighed on output. Gross domestic product increased by 5.2% from a year earlier in the second quarter, down from …

When Russia invaded Ukraine in February, many Ukrainians took shelter underground for days and even weeks from constant bombardments and fighting. Yesterday, Russia hit at least 11 Ukrainian cities with missiles in its broadest aerial assault against …

Russia’s “nuclear war” in Ukraine has already started, but it is not with “normal” nuclear weapons. Russia’s nuclear strategy is to take down a large part of Ukraine’s critical infrastructure, leaving it a country in ruins or, as some Americans say, …

LNG supply needs to continue at strong rates Households need to use less energy Colder-than-normal winter, unplanned outages are risks LONDON, Oct 11 (Reuters) - Europe needs to pay up to import liquefied natural gas, pray for a mild winter and cut energy …

The Sonoma County Water Agency reports this week that “a third consecutive year of below-average rainfall in the Russian River watershed has left the region’s two primary water storage reservoirs, Lake Sonoma and Lake Mendocino, near historic lows,” and …

Ukraine’s top diplomat began a tour of the continent last week, visiting Senegal, Ivory Coast, Ghana and Kenya. Africa and Ukraine are in “the same boat”, the latter’s foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, has said, accusing Moscow of triggering a global crisis …

By VINCENT OWINO Ukraine is rallying African countries to change their stance and start condemning Russian invasion of its territory, in the latest diplomatic push to seek support from the continent. Dmytro Kuleba, the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, on …

Online News Monitoring Made Simple

Established in 1995, EIN Newsdesk helps millions of users track breaking news across thousands of trusted websites. Users may set up custom email newsletters and RSS feeds or search among thousands of preset news sections. As a member, you may also submit your own news using the EIN Presswire distribution service. Membership is free and we do not sell or lease any information about you. Press release distribution, dedicated APIs, and custom services generate the revenue that allow us to offer you free basic access.