A man in Madhya Pradesh allegedly attempted to kill his wife but ended up killing his 55-year-old mother-in-law instead. He laid an electric wire on an iron door and his mother-in-law came in contact with the door and died of electrocution.

The incident took place in Saikheda village in Madhya Pradesh’s Betul district under the Kotwali police station limits on October 10.

Kotwali police station in-charge Apaala Singh said the man was a habitual drinker, which led to numerous quarrels with his wife.

Madhya Pradesh Man Murders Mother-In-Law

The official said that on October 9, the couple had another fight regarding the man’s habitual drinking and his wife decided to leave the house and stay with her mother following the scuffle.

Singh said that the initial investigation into the incident revealed that the man, angered by his wife leaving home went to his in-laws’ house and connected the main entry door made of iron with an electric wire, allegedly in an attempt to murder his wife.

However, his mother-in-law came in contact with the door and died on the spot after being electrocuted. The man fled the scene and the police said that efforts were being made to arrest him.

The police added that a case was registered under the absconding man under the relevant provisions.

Similar Case

In 2021, a 28-year-old man from Virar, Mumbai allegedly killed his wife and assaulted his mother-in-law after a dispute with the neighbours. The accused, identified as Gurav was slapped by the neighbour and called his wife Supriya for help.

She was reportedly busy with chores at her mother’s house and could not come, and the enraged Gurav went to his mother-in-law’s house and attacked her and smashed her head against a wall. He then stabbed his wife in front of their three children, panicked and absconded.

The neighbours rushed Supriya and her mother, Sushma to the hospital, where Supriya succumbed to her grievous injuries.

Suggested Reading: Man Booked After Killing Wife, Assaulting Mother-In-Law In A Fit Of Rage