Two people were killed by the explosions of two grenades thrown Friday evening on a market in Kigali, an attack carried out in the run-up to the legislative elections and attributed by the Rwandan authorities to opponents in exile allied with the rebels.

Friday evening, the explosion of a grenade thrown by unknown persons had left one dead and 14 injured in front of the covered market of Kicukiro-central. On Saturday, a second thrown grenade which, without exploding, had not been detected, in turn exploded, killing one person and injuring eight.

Two grenades were thrown on Friday evening but only one exploded, Kigali police spokesman Damas Gatare said on Saturday, another was stuck in the roof undetected...it's that second grenade that exploded on Saturday.

It's the same attack, he insisted. One person died (...) and eight with minor injuries were taken to hospital, he said.

The attack was not claimed.

On Saturday evening, Rwandan Minister of Foreign Affairs Louise Mushikiwabo implicated opponents in exile of the government of President Paul Kagame, allied to the rebels of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), based in eastern DRC, bordering of Rwanda.

We have already said that we know the networks behind these attacks. We know that dissidents in South Africa have forged links with the FDLR in eastern DRC in an attempt to destabilize security, she said in a message to AFP.

We are determined to work with the international community to bring peace and security to the region. But we will not allow these networks to carry out attacks in Rwanda with impunity, she added.

Several former close associates of President Kagame - including former Chief of Staff Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa - who have defected have taken refuge in South Africa.

Kigali accuses the FLDR of being formed from former leaders of the 1994 genocide in Rwanda and of fighting alongside the Congolese army in eastern DRC. Although it denies it, Rwanda itself is accused by the UN of providing military support to Congolese M23 rebels who are fighting Kinshasa forces in eastern DRC.

A series of grenade attacks had also targeted the Rwandan capital in 2010 as the presidential election approached, killing a total of four people and injuring around fifty.

More recently, similar attacks took place in March and July in Kigali and its suburbs, killing four people.

Rwandans are called to the polls on Monday to elect their deputies. The election already promises to consolidate the hegemony of the all-powerful Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF) of President Kagame.

The legislative polling stations open Monday at 07:00 (05:00 GMT) and the electoral campaign must end 24 hours before.

The various parties in the running held their last meetings on Saturday, particularly in the capital. A meeting of the small PS-Imberakuri was notably organized in the district of Kicukiro, where the attack took place.

In addition to the powerful coalition led by the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), in power since 1994, three parties and a handful of independent candidates are seeking the votes of nearly six million voters.

The election should unsurprisingly consolidate the hegemony of the RPF and its allies in the Chamber of Deputies, for lack of the presence of more virulent opponents who are not authorized by power.