Right-wing wokery is a thing. Those from that side of the street use it liberally. I remember in 2009 when the local party in South West Norfolk threatened to deselect Liz Truss because of an undisclosed extramarital affair and her backers accused the constituents of “misogyny” and “sexism”. She was duly elected.

Since the Boris Johnson era, the Conservative Party has been fulsomely commending itself for having had three female leaders and for their multiracial, rainbow front bench. I will give them that. But these wokies also proclaim that to mention the ethnicity or race of a Tory minister is “racist”; that people should be judged for what they do, not for who they are; and that race, gender and ethnicity should not matter. Confused? Me too.

You cannot completely disassociate a person from their background and inherited characteristics. From birth, our looks, languages, cultures and histories influence what we do and how others see us.

So I will not be following the unreasonable, censorious edict that race and gender do not matter – and choose instead to wholly condemn Home Secretary Suella Braverman, who said last week at the Tory party conference: “I would love to have a front page of the Telegraph with a plane taking off to Rwanda – that’s my dream, it’s my obsession.”

Braverman has taken over from Priti Patel, the home secretary who believed this grotesque measure would deter undocumented migrants coming to our shores. White politicians like Theresa May have always pushed hardline anti-immigration policies. But these two brown women, daughters of economic migrants, have gone further than any of them. The rage, the rage, I feel.

Last week, LBC’s James O’Brien tweeted: “Children of immigrants who despise other immigrants probably shouldn’t be in charge of immigration policy. They often seem to be dealing with personal issues that shouldn’t be anywhere near the political space.”

I strongly disagree. Their immigrant heritage didn’t make Ms Braverman or Ms Patel into political harridans. They are assimilationists who want to prove they can be tougher than white home secretaries. Just like Sajid Javid did before them.

Which brings me to the other assimilationist, Kwasi Kwarteng, a British-Ghanaian. What is his response to a new report by The Runnymede Trust, which has found that Black and minority ethnic people in Britain are twice as likely as white people to experience “deep” poverty. Is this racist? I do not believe so. Do he and his team think race matters or not? Or do they use race (and gender) only when it suits their agendas? As a Black man, those are questions he surely must address.

There are plenty of examples of politicians and other public figures who were judged both for who they are and what they did. Margaret Thatcher was frequently criticised by feminists for being indifferent about women’s rights. And Ann Widdicombe remains unforgiven for defending, in 1996, the handcuffing of prisoners while they were giving birth. A female Home Office minister should have had more empathy.

During the 2005 election, Michael Howard, then Tory leader, had billboards put up with these words: “Are you thinking what we’re thinking?” and “It is not racist to impose limits on immigration”. His Romanian-Jewish grandfather was, apparently, an illegal immigrant. He lost. People do not care for such blatant hypocrisy.

Let’s return to Mr Javid, a second generation Pakistani-Briton who, in 2019, cancelled the citizenship of Shamima Begum, one of the three schoolgirls from Bethnal Green lured by Isis recruiters into going to Syria. They had been groomed. They were children. Two are presumed dead. Mohammed Akunjee, Shamima’s lawyer, was scathing about the decision in a letter to The Times: “Your act represents the most profoundly egregious, capricious and politically driven abuse of power.” It was indeed. And immoral and legally suspect.

Rishi Sunak, by far the smarter of the two final leadership candidates, failed to win, I suggest, because though he thought he was thoroughly deracinated, Tory members could not bring themselves to vote for the son of Asian immigrants. I know, because I talked to some of them.

Tony Sewell, the Black Briton who led the investigation into race discrimination in Britain is due to get a peerage. Or so it is rumoured. His report, which many felt seriously underplayed well-documented conscious and unconscious racism in this country, was slated by experts and activists.

Politicians and their agents will always serve their own interests. But when Black and Asian Britons seem to betray their own histories, or when women betray other women, I flinch and recoil. So do countless others.

Some antiracists and feminists try to deflect blame to white power merchants. Women and minorities, they believe, are pawns in a game they do not understand. That is humbug. Truss, Patel and Braverman think they are above gender and race. That dumb faith is the real problem.

A profile in Politico about Mr Kwarteng includes some telling comments by those who know him. One cabinet minister says: “What you first notice about Kwasi isn’t the colour of his skin, but his great smile and booming voice.” Another opines: “I don’t care that Liz is the third female prime minister, that Rishi was the first Indian chancellor, or that Kwasi is the first Black chancellor. These things are irrelevant to political discourse. The left are going to eat themselves on this stuff, and we shouldn’t allow ourselves to do the same.”

Well, guess what? It’s the Tories now eating themselves because the party has fragmented and crashed. And I hear racist and sexist whispering campaigns have begun. A local Tory voter stopped me this Saturday in the local M&S and barked: “You hated Boris because he was a white man. Look at what we have now – a bloody awful woman and that Afro-loser. And other brain-dead multicultural ministers. Happy now?”

Many think what he is thinking. The Tory party is still a white, male stronghold. Truss, Braverman, Kwarteng et al cannot wish that away or still pretend that theirs is a party of modernity and equality.