A study on gender equality in the media recommended formulating an overarching anti-discrimination law and an umbrella gender-equality law encompassing public and personal spheres for achieving gender equality and gender sensitivity within the media houses and in the media content.

The findings and recommendation of the global study on ‘Gender Equality and Media Regulation’ was revealed at a webinar on Tuesday.

The study initiated by Fojo Media Institute in collaboration with Gothenburg University’s Department of Journalism, Media and Communication was conducted in Bangladesh, Armenia, Rwanda, Somalia, Sweden and Zimbabwe to understand how gender equality concerns are integrated into the media-related regulations, policies and self-regulatory frameworks.

Management and Resources Development Initiative conducted the Bangladesh part of the global study using mixed methodology, both quantitative and qualitative.

The study conducted a questionnaire survey on 18 media houses and found that five houses had written gender-related guidelines for contents while five others had verbal reporting guidelines, focusing mostly on sexual crimes.

It also found that the implementation and monitoring of the guidelines were weak.

Sexual harassment or abuse at workplace is not properly registered or addressed and the High Court’s 2009 directives for ensuring harassment-free workplace are not followed largely in houses, according to the survey.

The study also analysed a total of 43 acts and rules including the constitution and 12 national-level media policies and found that all 12 policies except one are silent about gender-equality or gender-sensitivity commitments of owners.

The study also found inconsistencies between commitment to gender equality in national policies and gender equality in media policies and legislation.

The study particularly recommended liaising with the women’s rights and gender rights movements to gain support for attaining gender-equality and sensitivity in the media.