COP27 - Climate change ‘Nothing’s left’: Hurricane Ian leaves emotional toll behind With her home gone and all her belongings trashed by Hurricane Ian, Alice Pujols wept as she picked through soggy clothes, toys and overturned furniture piled head-high outside a stranger’s house, looking to salvage something, anything, for her four children and herself.

World - International World in 'wrong direction' as climate impacts worsen: UN Humanity is "going in the wrong direction" on climate change due to its addiction to fossil fuels, the UN said Tuesday in an assessment showing that planet-warming emissions are higher than before the pandemic.

World - International California wildfire destroys 100 homes, other buildings A wind-swept wildfire in rural Northern California tore through a neighborhood and destroyed about 100 homes and other buildings, fire officials said Saturday after at least two people were injured and thousands were forced from their homes.

World - International Spain wildfire resumes, threatening natural park A major wildfire in eastern Spain that has destroyed vast swathes of land flared up again Friday despite heavy rainfall, threatening to spread to a nearby natural park, officials said.

World - Region Deadly wildfires contained in Algeria after homes, livelihoods lost Wildfires which killed at least 38 people across northern Algeria have been contained, firefighters said Friday, as volunteers mobilised to help those who lost homes and livelihoods in the tragedy.

World - Region 'Tornado of fire': Algeria forest blazes kill 38 Algerian firefighters were Thursday battling a string of blazes, fanned by drought and a blistering heatwave, that have killed at least 38 people and left destruction in their wake.

World - International French wildfire stops expanding; workers seek to tame it A major wildfire that ravaged pine forests in a tourist-beloved area of southwestern France has stopped expanding after rain fell and firefighters worked Sunday to tame it.

World - International Major wildfire in Spain forces the evacuation of 1,500 A large wildfire in northeast Spain grew rapidly overnight and was burning out of control Sunday, forcing the evacuation of eight villages and 1,500 people in Zaragoza province, firefighters said.

World - International European firefighters join battle to stop French wildfires Firefighters from across Europe started arriving in France on Friday to help battle several wildfires, including a giant blaze ravaging pine forests in the southwest of the country.

World - International France gets help from EU neighbours as wildfires rage Firefighting teams and equipment from six EU nations started to arrive in France on Thursday to help battle a spate of wildfires, including a fierce blaze in the parched southwest that has forced thousands to evacuate.

World - International Tribe: California wildfire near Oregon causes fish deaths A dangerous wildfire burning in a remote area just south of the Oregon border appears to have caused the deaths of tens of thousands of Klamath River fish, the Karuk Tribe said.

World - International Spain battles northwest wildfires Spanish firefighters on Saturday struggled to contain wildfires that have ravaged large tracts in the northwest, as a third summer heat wave grips the country.

World - International Wildfires in West explode in size amid hot, windy conditions Wildfires in California and Montana exploded in size overnight amid windy, hot conditions and were quickly encroaching on neighborhoods, forcing evacuation orders for over 100 homes Saturday, while an Idaho blaze was spreading.

World - International Wildfires in Germany, Czechia threatening tourist region A large wildfire on the German-Czech border is spreading and threatening to destroy a forested national park popular with tourists.

World - International US heat wave soars as California wildfire rages Tens of millions of Americans already baking in a scorching heat wave braced Saturday for record-setting temperatures to climb, while a major fire ravaged part of California.

World - International Tourist resort evacuated as Lesbos wildfire destroys homes Tourists and residents were evacuated on Saturday from a popular resort on the Greek island of Lesbos as a wildfire destroyed homes in the beachside village of Vatera.

World - International Europe fires already worse than in all 2021: Monitor The wildfires that ripped through swathes of Europe in recent weeks have already burned a larger area of land than was lost to blazes in all of 2021, the EU's satellite monitoring service said Thursday.

World - International In Photos: UK breaches 40C for first time, heat records tumble in France A punishing heatwave fuelling ferocious wildfires in western Europe pushed temperatures in Britain over 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit) for the first time on Tuesday and regional heat records tumbled elsewhere.

World - Africa Africa's wildlife parks managers meet to boost conservation Officials are meeting in Kigali in Rwanda this week as part of the continent's first-ever Africa Protected Areas Congress in a bid to expand the preservation of land and marine wildlife, despite little funding and the low quality of many existing conservation areas in the region.