“What got you here won’t take you there.”

Every successful entrepreneur has heard that warning. Call it a speed bump – a reminder to stay humble and curious – and unafraid to deviate or evolve. After all, the real test isn’t turning an idea into a solution. No, legacies are cemented by scaling an operation and sustaining a culture.

That next step was a big part of London Business School’s appeal to Spandana Palaypu. Six years ago, she launched ZoEasy, which she describes as an “award-winning social enterprise that educates and matches migrant blue-collar job seekers to ethical employment opportunities.” While Palaypu graduated near the top of her undergrad class as a business major, she joined the MBA Class of 2024 to expose herself to concepts like human-centered design. In other words, Palaypu knew it was time to take an off-ramp, so she could come back with new ideas and proven methods.

A STARTUP TO WATCH

“With my company having reached a certain stage, I now have the time to take a step back and re-approach it with a fresh perspective by pursuing the MBA at LBS,” she tells P&Q. “This will not only help improve my overall fundamental skills, but will give me the opportunity to further brainstorm and innovate with my diverse classmates, build a stronger network to expand further, and even connect with potential co-founders who have similar visions.”

As a founder, Palaypu had already produced enviable results. In 2019, ZoEasy was chosen as the winner of Lead2030 Challenge in the Quality Education category. In this challenge – which was launched by the United Nations and One Young World and funded by Credit Suisse – ZoEasy beat out 1,200 entrants from over 100 countries. Along the way, Palaypu was featured in the Forbes 30 Under 30 and Forbes 50 Startups. Her big achievement? ZoEasy created a financial literacy training for 15,000 couriers that serves as a benchmark for the United Arab Emirates.

And that’s just the start…

Story continues

“After graduation, my goal is to empower 1 million job seekers via dignified employment, and eventually grow ZoEasy into the global go-to platform for the blue-collar workforce (a Super-App of sorts),” Palaypu tells P&Q. “In order to achieve this scale. However, I need to go beyond the current skill set I possess, and what better time to do it than now!”

Outside LBS’ Sussex Place Building. Copyright Richard Moran

FROM OLYMPIAN TO MBA

Thus far, Palaypu has been inspired by the wide and diverse pool of professional experiences and cultural perspectives – the kind that “drives a lot of creativity.” The same could be said for her London locale. A hub for finance, technology, and entrepreneurship London is the kind of place, she says, where an LBS MBA “opens as many doors as you can imagine.”

“The best part is that LBS is at the heart of it all,” Palaypu adds. “The MBA Class has the opportunity to create this incredible network, meet with global industry leaders, and put everything that is absorbed in the classroom into practice through the multitude of opportunities that this dynamic city has to offer. Moreover, living in London will prepare you for life in general…Both the LBS MBA and this city as a whole will push us beyond our comfort zones to hit our highest potential. It’s a place where every opportunity is accessible, but WE have to work for it, and the reward is that much more special.”

Ryan Owens knows all about hard work and delayed gratification. In his own words, the LBS first-year “spent the past 11 years of my life building toward an event that lasted a total of 51 seconds at Tokyo 2020.” By Tokyo 2020, he means the 2020 Olympics, where he was a member of the United Kingdom’s cycling team. Sure enough, the sacrifice was worth it after Owen collected a Silver Medal – not counting his 2nd place finishes in both the World Championship and European Championship.

“Achieving that goal in Tokyo last year left me feeling very content with my sporting career to date,” he tells P&Q. “I’m staying open to all options as I start my MBA but have an initial draw to strategy consulting. The teamwork, commitment to excellence and drive to dig deep into problems utilised in consulting emulate my favourite elements of life as an athlete.”

WOMEN MAKING A DIFFERENCE

Ironically, Alexandra Rico-Lloyd combines her passions for entrepreneurship and cycling. The founder of Bike Club, Rico-Lloyd has helped 40,000 UK families get involved in the sport. In turn, you could call Nhlanzeko Khanyile more of an intrapreneur. Before business school, she was part of five-person team that launched Africa’s first renewable energy yieldco.

“I was able to experience what it feels like to work in a “start-up” environment and play a valuable role in building something from the ground up,” Khanyile notes “The real accomplishment was making the first few investments and seeing the fund comprise assets that play a positive contribution to the energy crisis in Africa and promote good ESG standards.”

Alisha Chowdhury is another first-year blazing a path in finance. During internship interviews in college, she was disheartened by how none of her counterparts looked like her. Despite these hurdles, she persevered to become an investor – who never forgot how hard it was to be an outlier.

“At my former employer, I helped create a diversity and inclusion (D&I) committee and spearheaded an initiative to donate over $150,000 to two organizations focused on increasing D&I in finance,” Chowdhury recalls. “In addition, I mentor college women interested in investing by providing interview preparation and career advice. Through these experiences, I have developed leadership, confidence, and grit. I went from being the young girl who was scared to go to an interview to the female investor sparking change in the financial sector.”

Class of 2024 Orientation in August

AN LBS MBA: A FAMLY AFFAIR

In theatre, you’ll also often find men holding the coveted producer role. That’s starting to change with Tanya Agarwal, who last worked as a producer at the acclaimed Paines Plough company. Think producers have the easy role? Ask Agarwal about the day she vaccinated 250 pigeons for an outdoor show! Her biggest achievement? Producing a 7-week tour during the pandemic.

“It was a tricky and precarious time to be creating live theatre and involved a lot of risk management (and an expert knowledge of COVID protocols in a very short space of time!),” she explains. “I handled everything, including hiring the creatives, negotiating with venues, and raising over £160,000 in capital. As a result, the show was nominated for the Visionary Honors Award 2022 in the Best Play/Musical category for its social impact in culture, media, and entertainment.”

Now, for her second act – or encore – she plans to follow in the footsteps of her father, a ’98 LBS MBA who made the leap from chemical engineering to investment banking. “I am keen to take a step back to develop new skills and explore how I want my professional life to develop. My ambition is to continue working in the Entertainment Industry, but with a focus on streaming services with one of the leading content creation companies.”

FROM RESEARCHERS TO GROILLA TRACKERS

In the Class of 2024, you’ll find all types of backgrounds. The European Commission awarded a Marie Skłodowska-Curie postdoctoral research fellowship to Freya Svedberg-Keating, enabling the PhD work out of the VIB-UGent Center for Inflammation Research. In contrast, Maria Jose Lagos headed up revenue management at CCU, Chile’s largest producer of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. Here, he partnered with McKinsey & Company to develop a strategy to stem its losses. It was a clear-cut success, with CCU’s annual sales revenue (as a whole) jumping from $1.858 to $2.485 billion dollars from 2020-2021.

“Together with their team, we undertook a complete review of the strategy for the core part of the business that was consistently losing market share. After 6 months, we managed to deliver a detailed proposal that allowed the company to recover a great part of the lost market share while growing in profits. I was also responsible for the tools we had acquired and the implementation of the new strategy.”

Outside their career paths, Anirban Mukhopadhyay is a certified gorilla tracker, while Ori Stern spent his teenage years working as a cowboy. Freya Svedberg-Keating completed Belgium’s Dodentocht ‘Death Walk’, covering 100 kilometers in 20 hours. By the same token, Ezzy Ndujiuba – a mathematician by trade – was a backing vocalist for Kelis at the Pyramid Stage at Glastonbury Festival. And Ndujiuba isn’t the only singer in the Class of 2024.

“I am a Bangladeshi-American-Cajun-Muslim woman passionate about financial equality and independence,” writes Alisha Chowdhury. “I sing soul and fun music.”

A CLASS PROFILE

Like most business schools during the 2021-2022 applications cycle, the London Business School experienced a decrease in applications, falling from 2,993 to 2,540 from the previous cycle. Despite this, the school enrolled 509 students in the Class of 2024, down just 2 students from the previous class.

As a whole, the class averaged a 702 GMAT, with the median score being 710 and the range running from a 600 low to a 780 high. True to the program’s cosmopolitan reputation, 91% of the class hails from outside the United Kingdom – to the tune of 74 countries. Women also account for 37% of the class.

Professionally, consultants make up 28% of the class. Finance trails closely behind, holding 25% of the class. Technology (9%), Energy (5%), Retail and Luxury (5%), and Healthcare (3%) also represent substantive segments of the class.

Next Page: Interview with Helen Foley, MBA Programme Director

Page 3: Profiles of 12 LBS First-Years

The annual orientation event for new students to the LBS MBA course. Maria Brookes-Labonne

LONDON: THE PLACE TO BE

The London Business School boasts several advantages. Certainly, MBAs are attracted to its flexible schedule, where students can exit out of the program at 15, 18, or 21 months. This enables them to leave earlier to recoup lost pay. The school also boasts an All-Star faculty line-up, including leading thinkers like Lynda Gratton, Herminia Ibarra, and Michael J. Jacobides. At the same time, the program’s cultural diversity brings a unique value to an LBS MBA. Every day, MBAs are exposed to cultural nuances and business practices that can give them a leg up in opening doors, building relationships, and negotiating arrangements. Alexandra Rico-Lloyd, for one, noted that she had already learned about “marriage in Pakistan, banking in Bogota, and lockdown in Singapore” through her early interactions with classmates. This diversity only accrues in value over time, adds Alisha Chowdhury.

“I was seeking an environment that is truly diverse and one that could help me foster relationships with future global leaders. One of the crucial elements of an MBA is relationship building. By developing a global network, you can achieve much more with your career and future businesses. Because of LBS, I envision a future where if I need to connect with someone in any country, like Brazil for example, to talk about an agri-tech start up, I can contact an LBS classmate who can provide the relevant insights on regulation, business, funding, and more. With the largest demographic only making up approximately 15-20% of the student body, LBS embodies diversity and diversity is the future of global business.”

And London only amplifies the school’s diversity. With London being home to 270 nationalities and 300 languages, the London Business School is a place, says Alexandra Rico-Lloyd, where she can “go to a founders’ breakfast with fellow entrepreneurs, have lunch with investors travelling to London, and dinner with e-commerce professionals from across Europe – all in one day.” Always somewhere to go with something to do and someone to meet, Rico-Lloyd adds, London makes for a diverse professional center – with plenty to do when the sun goes down or the weekend rushes in.

“London is at the heart of world commerce while also offering a wide range of things to do outside the classroom,” observes Anirban Mukhopadhyay. “It’s the only place in the world that has The Shard, a modern architectural marvel, just minutes away from the Tower Bridge, an historical marvel. I believe that it’s the best destination for a student looking to gain the best of both worlds.”

A Q&A WITH THE MBA PROGRAMME DIRECTOR

Helen Foley, London Business School

In the 2022 Financial Times survey, London Business School students and alumni gave their school the 5th-highest recommendation score. What are some reasons behind LBS’ popularity” Helen Foley, MBA Programme Director, has some ideas. This summer, P&Q reached out to Foley to learn more about recent innovations and new programme. Here are her thoughts on what students can expect from the MBA program and how its London location and unique curriculum give them an advantage in the workplace.

P&Q: What are the two most exciting developments at your program in the past year and how will they enrich the MBA experience for current and future MBAs?

Foley: “We have dedicated efforts over the last year to elevating the importance of our community and student culture. Students often choose LBS for the network they will develop here, and having an engaged, thriving community is vital for these networks to properly flourish. Through close collaboration with students, we have developed training and development initiatives, as well as a focus on the full return to in-person, interactive, and engaged learning. These elements highlight how our very special community can be at its best, through the commitment of all to making it successful.

We have started a review of our professional skills delivery, rebranding the core module as Skills for the Future. We are committed to further weaving the importance of skills acquisition throughout the programme, to meet students’ development needs throughout the 2-year journey, acknowledging the impact this can have not only on their MBA experience, but as stronger, more self-aware and impactful leaders of tomorrow.”

P&Q: If you were giving a campus tour, what is the first place you’d take an MBA applicant? Why is that so important to the MBA experience?

Foley: “I am very proud of our Sammy Ofer Centre, or SOC for short, which is where the majority of MBA teaching takes place. SOC is located in the Grade II-listed Marylebone Town Hall building, and was extensively yet sensitively redeveloped by LBS, opening its doors in 2017. The space is both stunning and practical, with fantastic technology installed throughout for teaching and learning, and beautiful shared study and networking facilities. Walking into SOC and feeling the buzz and energy of students chatting, laughing and generally enjoying life as they go about their studies is a wonderful experience and one that epitomises everything we strive to deliver for MBA students.”

P&Q: What is the most innovative thing you have introduced into the MBA program in recent years? How has it been a game changer for your program?

Foley: “While there is little to be grateful for from the pandemic, the related digital transformation of our classrooms and teaching methods was most definitely a game changer. We continue to believe strongly in the value and impact of in-person teaching and learning experiences. It would be remiss, however, not to acknowledge that equipping our classrooms to be fully hybrid-enabled. This not only allowed us to continue to deliver successful programmes during lockdowns, doing so has also provided us with the ability to make our classrooms even more global than they were previously.

Faculty can bring in guest speakers from all over the world as live, interactive contributors to support and enhance the classroom experience. While distance and limited technology previously made this impossible, it’s now a regular part of LBS teaching, with experts, CEOs and academics from all over the world engaging with our students in the classroom. Students have access to recruiters from all over the world, and our online outreach to prospective future candidates has grown significantly. As climate change pressures persist, and we all aim to live and work more sustainably, limiting travel and its inevitable impact on the environment is an additional benefit of our development of hybrid teaching technology.”

Class of 2024 Orientation

P&Q: What have MBAs told you is the most memorable, signature experience they’ve had in your program? Why did it resonate so much with them?

Foley: “Almost without exception, our students tell us that the global and diverse connections and networks they make at LBS are what makes their experience as outstanding as it is. The value of bringing together 60 or 70 nationalities in one class, whose backgrounds, cultures and experiences are just as varied, cannot be overestimated. Learning in an environment with such differing perspectives and viewpoints provides an unbelievably vibrant and rich experience. Our students often tell us that they have completely changed their own understanding of the world, and how they act in both business and life going forward, has been entirely turned around as a result.”

P&Q: How does the MBA program leverage the resources of London? How does that create more opportunities for your students?

Foley: “London truly is at the heart of the London Business School MBA. Not only are we a stone’s throw away from the City, the UK’s world-renowned Financial District, or from London’s vibrant tech world, but we are also committed to embedding London throughout the MBA. Some examples include the London CAP, part of our Year 1 tailored core offering, where students have the opportunity to work with London-based companies on real-world project opportunities.

Another example is the opportunity for students to enhance their program experience through involvement with the Walpole program. Based in London, the mission of Walpole is to promote, protect and develop British Luxury. Through the LBS partnership with Walpole, students have the opportunity to be mentored directly by some of the CEOs and heads of the UK’s most iconic luxury brands.

To go to the completely opposite end of the London spectrum – London is an incredibly wealthy city, but inevitably for this type of city, it also has large amounts of poverty and communities living in situations very different from the picture-postcard images of London. As part of the MBA Orientation, we collaborate with an organization whose focus is on community projects and improving the lives and futures of the people we live side by side with. Working in their study groups in week 1 of the program, our students are tasked with a large-scale project to rejuvenate, develop and improve the community facilities and environment for a poorer area of London, working in teams for the benefit of that community. The value this brings to the students is significant in many ways.”

LBS’ London campus is on the doorstep of Regents Park

P&Q: What is the most underrated part of your program that you wish students knew more about? How does that make your graduates more valuable to prospective employers?

Foley: “While I’m not sure underrated is the right word, I do think the value of the language programme, an optional element of the MBA, is perhaps not always given due attention. Working with expert tutors from King’s College London, students can choose from Arabic, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian or Spanish, with classes available at a range of levels based on students’ previous language experience.

The ability to work globally, and to build successful business relationships across borders, requires the ability to understand cultural nuances and perspectives, and language is a critical part of this. Our students come to us already equipped with diverse, multi-cultural experience, and the opportunity to extend this even further through the acquisition of a new language, or development of existing skills, is a key selling point for prospective employers.”

Next Page: Profiles of 12 LBS First-Years

Class of 2024 Orientation in August

P&Q: What has been the most successful new course introduced by faculty in the past two years? What has made it so popular with students and how does it give them an advantage in the workplace?

Foley: “Digital for Impact is a new course, launched in 2020. A cross-programme elective, Digital for Impact was created by LBS faculty Rajesh Chandy and Costas Markides as a way of connecting London Business School students virtually with SME businesses in emerging economies such as Africa. During the course, student teams work remotely with microentrepreneurs from countries like Rwanda and Uganda across a multitude of business sectors, including tourism, finance, retail, handicrafts, e-commerce, tech, coffee, and real estate.

With the support of expert faculty, peers, alumni and our regional on-the-ground network, project teams help entrepreneurs to address a live strategic challenge. During these projects, students have supported entrepreneurs with their business’ strategy, marketing, finances, expansion, and growth.

Our students love the experiential nature of the course, and really value the opportunity to apply learning straight away to a real-world project. They are able to see immediately the profound impact that business models enabled by digital technologies can have on businesses and societies, learning first-hand the transformative value this brings in emerging markets.

Delivering value in a remote consulting assignment requires an ability to develop a deep understanding of client and customer needs while addressing significant constraints on time and local knowledge. It requires the ability to self-organise, and to develop processes to ensure that projects are delivered on time and at high quality. It also requires the ability to influence peers within and outside the project team, and to access insights from formal and informal sources. All of these abilities are invaluable for those seeking to lead and create impact in today’s globally connected workplace.”

Class of 2024 Orientation

WHY LONDON BUSINESS SCHOOL?

1) Cultural Diversity: “As someone who comes from a finance and accounting background, the big seller of the MBA for me was the chance to forge a valuable network of business professionals. The LBS MBA class is richly diverse (the LBS MBA2023 Class has 67 nationalities). The global perspectives that I will obtain from my fellow MBA classmates should aid me in my professional career as I would like to work primarily in emerging markets. I believe that having perspectives from people who come from both developed and emerging countries will enhance my contribution to the emerging markets sector.”

Nhlanzeko Khanyile (’24)

2) London: “London provides everything you could want as an MBA student. Professionally, London is home to global businesses and financial institutions, as well as being an established tech hub and home to a growing startup scene. These provide a wealth of experiential learning opportunities to MBA students through LBS’ LondonCAP, which partners student groups with London-based organizations in order to cement learning, as well as both summer and term time internships. In London, there is always a new restaurant to try, exhibition to see, or concert to attend with your classmates and there really is something for everyone. It is also the perfect launch pad to explore the rest of Europe and beyond for treks and weekend breaks.”

Freya Svedberg-Keating (’24)

“First, you have the opportunity to study in one of the most cosmopolitan cities in the world; you get to immerse yourself in a city with people who come from very diverse backgrounds – both inside and outside of the classroom. Secondly, London is also one of the top financial districts in the world, which makes it a very attractive city to earn an MBA degree in. Lastly and perhaps most importantly for those students looking to increase their options after study, taking an MBA degree in London offers you the opportunity to obtain a graduate visa, which gives you permission to stay in the UK for at least two years after completing your MBA. For international students, this makes earning an MBA at LBS that much more appealing because it significantly increases the opportunities you can consider after you complete your MBA.”

Nhlanzeko Khanyile (’24)

3) Flexibility: “Programme flexibility was a key factor while choosing my target school. LBS offered me the opportunity to not only decide the length of the programme but also pursue term-time internships as an international student. The flexibility that students have in exploring multiple careers through a mix of structured and term-time internships really stood out to me. I believe that this is key to moving into jobs with more unstructured recruiting pipelines such as Private Equity, one of my target areas for recruiting.”

Anirban Mukhopadhyay(’24)

4) Entrepreneurship: “The program has a lot of strong entrepreneurial elements which really pulled me in. For instance, LBS has programs such as LondonCAP, the Newton Venture Program and the Entrepreneur Mentors in Residence, which will give me the opportunity to deep dive into the local startup and Venture Capital ecosystem and pick up best practices to implement within my own social enterprise. I’m also keen to pursue courses such as the Future of Work and collaborate with Professor Lynda Gratton who is a phenomenal entrepreneur and thought leader on Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Strategy.”

Spandana Palaypu (’24)

5) Programming: “The “Global Experiences” offers a chance to immerse ourselves in different business cultures first-hand. This is undoubtedly unique to LBS and is something that I am really looking forward to. I am also excited about the language courses that LBS offers. As someone who has been learning Spanish for the past two years, I am keen to develop my language skills further and enhance them to suit a business setting.

Tanya Agarwal (’24)

“Celebrating Diwali for the first time was a major (and very colourful) highlight! From the food to the music to the MBA class dance competition, it was one of the most fun and immersive experiences on the MBA. It was a vibrant, loud, energetic celebration of our classmates’ culture that perfectly exemplified why going to an international business school was the right move.”

Maddie Forman (’24)

“Definitely Tattoo! Tattoo is our school’s yearly celebration of our cultural and national diversity – the evening includes different cuisines, traditional dances from different nations (although the dance competition can become quite competitive!), musical performances, and stalls showing off cultural heritage. This year it is back on campus and outside in our school’s gardens. It is tradition that we light up and project onto the school building all the different flags represented by our student population. The reason I love this tradition is that encapsulates what is so special about LBS – our diversity and that we love our differences and choose to learn from each other.”

Naveen Kler, London Business School

London Business School – Park Road Entrance

ADVICE TO PROSPECTIVE APPLICANTS

“London Business School is really interested in admitting pupils who have an open mind. You’ve got to be willing to learn from others and learn about yourself. Think about what makes you unique. As an example, London Business School design seating plans for the lectures to ensure you’re not surrounded by people who have the same experience as you. That’s fantastic because you will learn from a diverse range of people. So think about what you bring to your group that makes you stand out. Rico

The LBS MBA Application is probably one of the most introspective processes out there. It really makes you think about who you are, what your goals and values are, the kind of culture and community you thrive in, and of course the people you want to form lifelong friendships with. It’s all about the fit!

My advice to any potential applicant would be to first dig a little deeper and really understand why you would be the right fit for LBS and vice versa. Delve into how your goals and values align with that of the school’s, and how LBS can help you get there. Also, highlight how YOU will make a valuable addition to the classroom and the wider LBS community be it through your work, your extra-curricular activities, and experiences where you have engaged with diverse cultures. Most importantly, make sure your application reflects authenticity, clarity of thought and really brings out your unique voice, because LBS really values this.”

Spandana Palaypu (’24)

“I think my interview was a really strong element of my application. The LBS interview is conducted by an alumnus who has a similar background to you – my interviewer was an ex-lawyer who had moved into impact investing (very spot on!). I think I shone in my interview because I had a crisp strategy on how to execute my post-MBA journey and I demonstrated very clearly that I had researched that path in detail. I could speak to the companies I wanted to work for and the specific departments and the projects that I thought were particularly interesting. I could also relay why my skill set and network pre-MBA would aid me in this journey. Furthermore, I stayed very relaxed throughout and definitely made the interview into a conversation where I was exchanging ideas and thoughts with my interviewer.”

Naveen Kler (’22)

The post Meet London Business School’s MBA Class Of 2024 appeared first on Poets&Quants.