10th Annual Sporting Clays Classic

October 13, 2022

Description





The 10th Annual MWFPA Sporting Clay Classic is scheduled for October 13th at https://milfordhills.com/

and we are looking forward to an afternoon of shooting fun and raising money for member employee-student scholarships!

We're celebrating our 10th year with a bigger and better raffle!

Thanks to MWFPA member John Tasker of Seneca Foods for doing yeoman's work on securing raffle prizes.

Donors include:

Hornaday

Kifaru International

Sitka

Vista Outdoor

Vortex

If you're new to the game, sporting clays is a shotgun shooting game in which clay discs are presented in ways that mirror the flight pattern of birds. Each station on the grounds has different features and unpredictable disc delivery. Some shots will be surprisingly easy and some border on impossible! We hope you will join us this year at Milford Hills. We'll be sure to order up some fall colors and great weather.

EVENT ITINERARY

10:00-11:00 a.m. - Registration at the Hideaway

Check in at the desk and consult the board for your team number

11:00 a.m. - Lunch

11:45 p.m. - Mandatory Safety Review

Gather your team and pick up your scoring sheet & clipboard

12:00 p.m. - Sporting Clays Challenge (100 rounds)

Head out to stations

3:30 to 6 p.m. - Post-Shoot Social, Raffle & Awards

Food will be served until 5:30 pm

THANK YOU TO ALL THE 2022 SPORTING CLAYS SPONSORS!

PRESENTING SPONSOR

Brakebush Brothers

Shooter Warm Up Sponsor

Seneca Foods

Lunch Sponsor

Lyco Manufacturing

After-the-Shoot Social Sponsor

Michael Best & Friedrich

12 Gauge Sponsor

Pure Line Seed

Chippewa Valley Bean Company

Lakeside Foods



20 Gauge Sponsor

Silgan Containers

Bush Brothers & Company

AMM Incorporated

Station Sponsors

Ampco Pumps Company

Bayer Crop Science-Seminis Vegetable Seeds

Brotherton Seed Company

Cushman & Wakefield

Del Monte

Doral Corporation

Harris Moran Seed Company

JP Cullen

Pearl Engineering

Seneca Foods

Syngenta Vegetable Seeds (2 Stations)

Watertech of America

Yamato Corporation

Milford Hills

W5670 French Road, Johnson Creek, WI, 53038, United States