FRANKFURT, GERMANY, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Wayne E. Criss’ Genetic Soul Brothers is a science-mystery book that involves identical quadruplet boys whose lives were initiated at the same fertility clinic, born to four different …

FRANKFURT, GERMANY, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Fred R. Bleakley’s The Auschwitz Protocols: Ceslav Mordowicz and the Race to Save Hungary's Jews is a work of narrative nonfiction that details Ceslav Mordowicz’s catalytic …

FRANKFURT, GERMANY, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Jo Gwost’s Submitted Unto Perfection: Reflections for the Bride of Christ is a collection of reflections designed to engage and encourage readers in their respective relationships with …

Unique art of transforming spiritual premonitions into whimsical and captivating paintings is gearing up for the upcoming 2022 Frankfurt Book Fair FRANKFURT, GERMANY, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Frankfurt, DE— Cindy L. Rockwood’s …

An enlightening quasi encyclopedia of life’s hows and whys is set to make an appearance at the 2022 Frankfurt Book Fair FRANKFURT, GERMANY, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Frankfurt, DE— Author Dr. Maxcelle Yvonne Forrester’s From Ashes …

FRANKFURT, GERMANY, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Russell Hatler’s The Hedonist revolves around the self-indulgent Brandon Stevenson as he chases life’s fleeting pleasures with no plans for the future— until he meets Angel and falls …

Chicago, Oct. 14, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Global Mobile Device Management Market size to grow from USD 5.5 billion in 2021 to USD 20.4 billion by 2026, at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 29.8% during the forecast period, according to a new …

CoStar Group, Inc. CSGP, a leading provider of online real estate marketplaces, information and analytics in the commercial and residential property markets, announced today that it has acquired Fairmas Benchmarking, a leading German hospitality …

The nephew of paralysed ex-Formula One star Michael Schumacher has suffered a broken back after being involved in a violent crash while racing in the German touring car series last weekend. David Schumacher, the son of ex-Formula One driver Ralf Schumacher …

Racing has always played a large role in the automotive industry. Automakers love to boast about racing wins, competing in specific series, and all of their sponsorships. Beyond being a sport where the best drivers and teams are pitted against one another, …

The nephew of F1 legend Michael Schumacher suffered a broken spine after being involved in a horrific fireball crash during a weekend race in Germany. David Schumacher, 20, was taking part in the Hockenheim DTM competition Saturday when he collided with …

Ex-Formula One racer Ralf Schumacher has revealed his son David has been diagnosed with a broken back days after he was cleared of fractures following a multi-car crash. David Schumacher, nephew of stricken F1 legend Michael and cousin of current F1 driver …

A fiery crash involving several cars at the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters (DTM) in Hockenheim, Germany last Saturday left driver David Schumacher, nephew of iconic Formula One driver Michael Schumacher, with a fractured vertebra. Schumacher’s father, former …

Russia's foreign ministry said Thursday it had summoned envoys of Germany, Denmark and Sweden to express "bewilderment" over Moscow's exclusion from an investigation into leaks on the Nord Stream pipelines. Published: 13 October 2022 13: …

David Schumacher -- the nephew of racing icon Michael Schumacher -- suffered a broken spine during a terrifying crash in Germany, his family announced on Thursday. The scene was tough to watch -- David's Mercedes-AMG GT3 crashed during the final round …

When Germany was the epicenter of World War II, it makes us wonder why Japan was bombed and not Germany. Well, there are several reasons for this, although not every aspect may be verifiable. Some things are top secret, which are hardly ever revealed in …

Schumacher was one of several drivers to crash out on a frantic lap after the safety car restart on Saturday, prompting race control to immediately red-flag the session. With the cars bunched up in two-by-two formation as per the restart procedure, …

BRUSSELS — Russia hit Ukrainian cities from the air for the fourth day in a row on Thursday, and as new missiles fell and bodies from earlier barrages were pulled from the rubble, the death count rose to more than three dozen, officials said. The new toll …

Friday 14 October 2022 6:30 am By: John Hulsman Dr. John C. Hulsman is Senior Columnist at City AM, and Founder and Managing Partner of John C. Hulsman Enterprises, a global political risk consulting firm. More of John’s work is available on his substack …

Reuters October 14, 2022 The gas leak at Nord Stream 2 in September seen from the Danish F-16 interceptor on Bornholm. Photo: Danish Defence Russia needs permission for its vessels to conduct investigations into explosions that damaged Nord Stream …

Cleveland-born Samuel Alderson (1914-2005) created crash test dummies for the auto industry, drastically improving driver safety. Samuel W. Alderson is the genius who made dummies smart. The California inventor parlayed a knack for tinkering in his old …

Johannesburg – Mpumalanga Police have arrested one suspect in connection with the shooting and killing of German tourist Jorg Schnarr near the Numbi gate of the Kruger National Park earlier this month. Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said: “A 32 year old suspect …

Breadcrumb Trail Links PMN Business NATO allies must press ahead with support for Ukraine while taking Russia’s threats to use nuclear weapons seriously, German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht said. The Kremlin vowed to repair a crucial bridge to …

The car race in the Hockenheim DTM competition was a chaotic affair with several vehicles crashing out of the race within the first couple of laps. The race witnessed red flag as early as in lap 6 following the collision between Thomas Preining and David …

Comment on this story Comment LUDWIGSHAFEN, Germany — Larger than Lower Manhattan, the sprawling BASF chemical plant on the Rhine River is a symbol of both German industrial might and how much Europe’s largest economy has to lose in its worst energy crisis …

German car suppliers must soon sign new power contracts for 2023 Carmakers reluctant to shoulder energy costs Energy-intensive parts could be sourced from abroad 'There are no good options' - foundry association WOLFSBURG, Germany, Oct 14 (Reuters) …

Gas leak at Nord Stream 2 as seen from the Danish F-16 interceptor on Bornholm, Denmark September 27, 2022. Danish Defence Command/Forsvaret Ritzau Scanpix/via REUTERS MOSCOW, Oct 14 (Reuters) - Russia needs permission for its vessels to conduct …

Online News Monitoring Made Simple

Established in 1995, EIN Newsdesk helps millions of users track breaking news across thousands of trusted websites. Users may set up custom email newsletters and RSS feeds or search among thousands of preset news sections. As a member, you may also submit your own news using the EIN Presswire distribution service. Membership is free and we do not sell or lease any information about you. Press release distribution, dedicated APIs, and custom services generate the revenue that allow us to offer you free basic access.