Are you trying to figure out where to find The Driftwood in Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4? The Driftwood is a rather elusive Fortnite location, as it isn't labelled on the in-game map, and its position is constantly changing. So, to find the Driftwood in Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4, you'll need to know what it is you're looking for!

Struggling with the ESP-Buimet-003 Error in Fortnite? Here's how to fix it.

Where To Find The Driftwood In Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4

Click to enlarge

Fortnite The Driftwood is the pirate ship previously confined to Lazy Lagoon. As Chrome invades the Island, a set of balloons have been added to the vessel, granting it the ability to float and escape the grasp of the Chrome.

The Driftwood is a Landmark, so you won't find it labelled on the in-game map. Making locating The Driftwood even more confusing, this particular Fortnite locale roams. When Chapter 3 Season 4 first began, The Driftwood was floating over Lustrous Lagoon. At the time of writing, The Driftwood is hovering over the bridge between Greasy Grove and Flutter Barn. Expect The Driftwood to continue to relocate as we forge ahead through Chapter 3 Season 4.

How To Enter The Driftwood In Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4

Click to enlarge

Since The Driftwood is hovering in the air, the easiest way to access it is by soaring down on it from the Battle Bus at the beginning of a match. However, if that's not an option, you can ascend to The Driftwood using the Fortnite Ascenders and Fortnite Ziplines attached to it.

Here are Fortnite Holo-Chests, explained.

What To Do At The Driftwood In Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4

Click to enlarge

Blackheart, a Fortnite NPC, is the captain of The Driftwood. You can speak to Blackheart to purchase a Prime Shotgun and Fortnite Chrome Splash.

The Driftwood isn't exactly a haven for loot, but there's enough plunder on this ship to make it worth raiding. Especially noteworthy is a two-Key Vault on the bottom floor of The Driftwood.

The Driftwood is a hub for a multitude of Chapter 3 Season 4 Quests. It seems as if every week there's a new Challenge revolving around The Driftwood. Below is a list of some of the Fortnite Quests you can complete at The Driftwood to earn XP toward your Battle Pass and Season Level:

Land at The Driftwood

Emote at The Driftwood

Open Chests or Ammo Boxes inside the Driftwood

With that, you have everything you need to plan your visit to The Driftwood in Fortnite. The Driftwood is one of the more unique locations in Fortnite, so make sure you check it out and complete all the associated Quests!

The Driftwood is just one of many Fortnite Vault and Key locations in Chapter 3 Season 4.