TAK-003 Recommended for the Prevention of Dengue Disease Caused by Any Dengue Virus Serotype in Individuals Four Years of Age and Older in the EU and in Dengue-Endemic Countries Participating in the EU-M4all Procedure Positive Opinion for TAK-003 Based on …

WASHINGTON, Oct. 14, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- American companies ready to invest in the Northern Triangle countries of Central America view fair incentives, security and skilled labor as important considerations when moving their investments from Asia …

Bipartisan Announcement by U.S. Foreign Relations Committee Senators Warns Rule of Law Must be Upheld in Regard to U.S. ZEDE Investments WASHINGTON, Oct. 13, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- On October 13, 2022, United States Senators Bill Hagerty (R-TN) and …

Fernando Lelo de Larrea: How to be part of the 5 billion dollar club in Latin America MIAMI, FLORIDA, ESTADOS UNIDOS, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- In the first half of 2022, startups in Latin America raised more than $5 billion in …

SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico – On October 12, 2022, United States District Court Judge Silvia Carreño Coll sentenced Iván Santell-Velázquez to 13 months in prison and two years of supervised release for cyberstalking, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 2261A(2), …

ROUND ROCK, TX, UNITED STATES, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Andrea Rivera is the Nutrition Specialist for Head Start and Early Head Start at Christian Military Academy in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico, overseeing the administration of the …

Fernando Lelo de Larrea: 5 things Warren Buffett likes to invest in Latin America MIAMI, FLORIDA, ESTADOS UNIDOS, October 13, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- If you have followed the world's leading investors and their interests over the past …

- Advertisement - NIA CHARLESTOWN NEVIS (October 12, 2022) — Hon. Mark Brantley, Premier of Nevis who is also the Minister of Health in the Nevis Island Administration (NIA), has publicly thanked the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) for its …

On October 10, 2022, Seabourn’s first ultra-luxury expedition ship, Seabourn Venture, had its inaugural visit to St. Kitts, tendering in South Friars Bay that stretches along the coast of the isthmus. The recently launched 23,000 gross-ton vessel will …

The five (5) crew members of the MV Elizabeth C who were taken into Police custody as a result of the recent major drug bust have been charged by both The Royal St. Christopher and Nevis Police Force and The St. Kitts and Nevis Customs and Excise …

St Kitts and Nevis: The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN, in partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture, is persisting with the rollout of the Innovative Protected Cultivation Systems in the project of the Caribbean in St Kitts and Nevis along …

The five-crew members of the MV Elizabeth C have been charged by police in St Kitts and Nevis in connection with a drug bust. Trinidad and Tobago nationals Peter Scotland, Saleem Ali, and Micheal Jack, as well as Grenadian nationals Desue Mc Farlang and …

Basseterre, St. Kitts, October 12, 2022 (SKNIS): The Government of St. Kitts and Nevis is strengthening its response to gender-based violence by pursuing a multi-pronged approach that will tackle system and cultural reforms. On Wednesday, October 12, …

Basseterre, St. Kitts (October 11, 2022) -- As part of CJ Traveler's Choice Awards 2022, St. Kitts & Nevis has been nominated in the following categories: • Best Luxury Hotel in the Caribbean – Park Hyatt St. Kitts and Four Seasons Resort, …

The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women today concluded its consideration of the combined fifth to ninth periodic reports of Saint Kitts and Nevis, with Committee Experts commending the State on some of the policies it had adopted, …

The Minister of International Trade of St Kitts and Nevis, Dr Denzil Douglas, is travelling to Barbados to attend the Joint CARIFORUM – European Union (EU) Ministerial Meeting. The Minister of International Trade of St Kitts and Nevis, Dr Denzil Douglas, …

St Kitts and Nevis: The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Marine Resources and Cooperatives shares the list of the week of activities for Word Food Day 2022. St Kitts and Nevis have been celebrating the food available on the earth under the theme" …

St Kitts and Nevis: The Department of Agriculture of Nevis, in partnership with the Department of Marine Resources of St Kitts and Nevis as well as the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, shared the highlights of the Farmer and Fisher …

Basseterre, St. Kitts, October 12, 2022 (SKNIS): The Government of St. Kitts and Nevis is strengthening its response to gender-based violence by pursuing a multi-pronged approach that will tackle system and cultural reforms On Wednesday, October 12, 2022, …

Basseterre, St. Kitts, October 13, 2022 (SKNIS): Enhancing the family structure is a key ingredient of the St. Kitts and Nevis National Gender Policy and Action Plan which seeks to promote gender equality and eliminate all types of gender-related …

Basseterre, St. Kitts, October 13, 2022 (SKNIS): The St. Kitts Investment Promotion Agency (SKIPA) is currently participating in the 23rd Annual US-Africa Trade & Investment Conference (AfrICANDO) 2022 in Miami Florida from October 10-13 2022, which …

Basseterre, St. Kitts, October 12, 2022 (SKNIS): Minister of International Trade, the Right Honourable Dr. Denzil Douglas is currently representing St. Kitts and Nevis at the October 11-12 Joint CARIFORUM – European Union (EU) Ministerial Meeting in …

CHARLESTOWN, NEVIS, October 13, 2022 (NIA) –– Premier of Nevis Hon. Mark Brantley continues to express gratitude to the Government and people of the Republic of China (Taiwan) for their assistance in the development of the island. He also thanks Hon. Dr. …

BASSETERRE, St. Kitts, October 12, 2022, (SKNIS) – The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, is continuing with the roll out of the Innovative Protected Cultivation Systems in the …

Good day, I’d like to thank the Chair and executives of this committee for the opportunity to present during this 83rd session of CEDAW. My name is Isalean Phillip; I am a Senator in the National Assembly of St. Kitts and Nevis and a Minister with …

The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Marine Resources and Cooperatives is all set to celebrate World Food Day 2022 October 14, 2022 St Kitts and Nevis: The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries, Marine Resources and Cooperatives is all set to celebrate …

Online News Monitoring Made Simple

Established in 1995, EIN Newsdesk helps millions of users track breaking news across thousands of trusted websites. Users may set up custom email newsletters and RSS feeds or search among thousands of preset news sections. As a member, you may also submit your own news using the EIN Presswire distribution service. Membership is free and we do not sell or lease any information about you. Press release distribution, dedicated APIs, and custom services generate the revenue that allow us to offer you free basic access.