Protesters lined the roadside Thursday at Chief Quipuha Park roundabout in Hagåtña, in opposition to the military’s reapplication for a permit to detonate munitions along Tarague Beach.

Local activist group Prutehi Litekyan: Save Ritidan organized the protest and has launched a letter-writing campaign to the Guam Environmental Protection Agency. The GovGuam agency is reviewing Andersen Air Force Base’s permit application for the 40-year-old open detonation and burn range along the island’s northern coast, but Prutehi Litekyan wants the permit denied.

Chants of “do your job EPA” could be heard from the street.

Paige Aguon, 21, from Mangilao, said she had come to fight for her rights “and for the future generations and those who can’t speak: our land, our sea animals and our oceans.”

“We’re talking about hazardous waste going near our aquifer, to our jungles, to our ocean,” said group member Monaeka Flores. “This is air that we breathe, it’s going to be close to homes, schools, ranches, farms, all in the north. And we as a community should be extremely upset that this is even considered.”

She said the detonations along Tarague, without an updated assessment of alternatives, was a failure on the part of the Air Force. Thursday’s protest was just the beginning of actions aimed to pressure Guam EPA.

Guam EPA have said they are reviewing the military’s application alongside stricter guidelines on open burn and open detonation activities handed down by the U.S. EPA in June. At a minimum, a review of alternative disposal methods will be required, the local regulator has said.

Joint Region Marianas public affairs officer Cmdr. Katie Koenig on Thursday provided the newspaper with a letter sent from Andersen officials to Guam EPA in June, which indicated that the evaluation of alternatives to open burn and detonation on base and an assessment of environmental impacts were being performed.

“The results of this assessment are ongoing and will be provided to GEPA as soon as they are available,” Koenig said.

She added that a similar assessment was recently completed separate munitions site at Andersen, which found open detonation to be the safest and most environmentally conscious option.

”The Department of Defense respects Prutehi Litekyan’s right to peaceful protest and the DoD is committed to acting as good stewards of the environment in order to preserve and protect the beautiful island we all call home,” Koenig said in a statement.