Calais seeing ‘migrant flash mobs’ says police

SUBSCRIBE Invalid email We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. More info

A Brexiteer has demanded Suella Braverman gets tough on immigration. Douglas Murray's comments came it emerged more than 35,000 migrants have crossed the Channel to the UK so far this year.

Mr Murray, in an op-ed in The Sun, responds to the Home Secretary's pledge to bring down immigration as well as pledges by the current Government and previous administrations to reduce migrant numbers. Ms Braverman outlined plans at the Conservative Party conference for new powers to ban migrants who cross the Channel from claiming asylum, saying it was her "dream" to see a Government flight deporting asylum seekers to Rwanda. She told conference-goers on October 4: "We have to stop the boats crossing the Channel. This has gone on for far too long. "I will pledge to you today that I will bring forward legislation to make it clear that the only route to the United Kingdom is through a safe and legal route."

Home Secretary Suella Braverman has pledged to crack down on Channel crossings

Migrants packed tightly onto a small inflatable boat bail water out as they try to cross the Channel

Will we get a bank holiday for King Charles's coronation? Buckingham Palace has officially confirmed when King Charles III will receive his coronation. But what does that mean for Britons? Will we get a bank holiday for King Charles's coronation? Find out all we know so far HERE. In his op-ed, Mr Murray claims MPs from the left and right of British politics have failed to adequately tackle the number of people entering the UK illegally. On the Conservative Party, he writes: "They are forever fearful — even more than Labour — of being accused of racism. "Given that even Priti Patel (nobody’s idea of a white supremacist) was accused of this by the insane Left, it is an understandable fear. But it is a fear they should now have got over. There is nothing racist about enforcing your borders. "Yet the Conservatives have another problem. They are not just cowardly, they are lazy. READ ABOUT A MAN PLOUGHING THROUGH JUST STOP OIL PROTESTERS

A migrant carries her children after being helped ashore from a RNLI lifeboat

UK Border Force officials travel in a RIB with migrants picked up at sea

An aerial view shows dinghies believed to have been used by migrants

Trending

This includes 1,065 people making the journey on Sunday, marking the fourth time the daily total had topped 1,000 in seven weeks. Crossings continued on Tuesday amid calm conditions at sea. The latest figures come as the Government faces another legal challenge to its plan to send migrants to Rwanda. Charity Asylum Aid's case is due to be heard by High Court judges later this week after similar challenges were made last month.

Migrants packed onto a small boat near the Dover Strait

Deportation flights are on hold while the legal disputes continue. The court is expected to give its ruling on all of the cases at the same time, at a later date. Since former Home Secretary Priti Patel announced the deal with the east African nation in April, 29,965 people have arrived in the UK after making the journey from France. The Government has said the continued rise of Channel crossings is "a clear abuse of our immigration laws" and warned migrants they faced being sent to Rwanda after making the journey. Amnesty International UK said the dangerous crossings were taking place because the Government does not provide "safe alternatives" and called for the UK and France to "get their act together by ensuring safe access to asylum on both sides of the Channel".

The number of people arriving on Britain's shores in small boats remains a fraction of those heading to mainland Europe. Data from the UN's refugee agency shows at least 120,441 people arrived in Europe via the Mediterranean by land and sea last year. A Government spokesperson said: "The crisis in the Channel, driven by global migration and organised crime, is causing an unprecedented strain on our asylum system. "Despite the lies they have been sold by the people smugglers, migrants who travel through safe countries to illegally enter the UK will not be allowed to start a new life here. "But ultimately nobody should put their lives at risk by taking dangerous and illegal journeys to the UK. We will go further and faster to tackle those gaming the system, using every tool at our disposal to deter illegal migration, disrupt the business model of people smugglers and relocate to Rwanda those with no right to be in the UK."