Viber - Remote Online Tracker

Viber is one of the most sought-after cross-platform messenger apps allowing instant exchange of free messages and files, as well as making calls. This messenger has recently become so popular that when it comes to smartphone, tablet or PC users almost one in two of them use it for online communication. This high popularity is due to the advantage of reducing expenditures related to cellular carriers' services, since its user needs to pay only for incoming and outgoing Internet traffic. The highest financial gain is reported while using roaming.

Far from every Viber user thinks about the fact that this app serves not only as a near-free-of-charge means of communication, but also is an actual device tracker, since it stores a lot of user data, such as the following: complete correspondence history, current GPS location data, log of incoming and outgoing calls, lists of saved contacts, as well as received and sent photos and video files. To make use of this tracker mode, one needs to hack Viber by a phone number.

How to Hack Viber without Obtaining Access to the target’s device?

AppMessenger developers offer a unique approach to Viber hack online without installing spyware on a target device. It is now possible due to the complex implementation of advanced cyber-security and data encryption technologies. This method completely eliminates all possible risks associated with downloading, configuring and launching malicious software.

Due to a fully automated method of launching a SS7 attack, you can remotely intercept a service SMS send by Viber and containing a verification code necessary for accessing your victim's account. This process is fully automated and requires no client involvement. Just specify your target's phone number to instantly launch our tracker.

What will be the Result of Initiating an SS7 Attack?

First, a verification code will be obtained to transfer your victim's account to a new device (custom Viber emulator developed for AppMessenger clients). Then the archive of user files, available for download, will be uploaded to the Monitoring Dashboard section. Before downloading, please note the following: this archive can take up more than 2 GB of disk space. This file gets scanned by antivirus and is completely safe to download.

The Highest Security and Anonymity Level - Our Main Priority.

Information specified at sign-up: email address, victim's phone number, as well as all data obtained after hacking a Viber account are subject to two-factor encryption. This completely eliminates any possibility of subsequent identification of AppMessenger clients. The payment methods we use are completely safe, anonymous and preclude tracking any transaction party (a remitter or a payee).

Online Viber hacking tool can be used on any modern mobile device. The main requirements are the presence of a stable Internet connection and one of the following browsers: last version of Google Chrome, Safari, Mozilla Firefox, Internet Explorer, MS Edge or Opera.

Viber hacking time may vary depending on AppMessenger server load. As a rule, a full operation cycle (from launching to archive downloading) takes no more than 20 minutes. Since the archive size can exceed 2 GB of disk space, its downloading time depends on your Internet connection specs.

AppMessenger Tracker works in full invisible mode and does not affect the normal operation of the device. It is undetectable to any malware scanner and antivirus. The battery power is consumed as usual without any additional operations on the device.

As a result, users receive an archive of the following targets files: incoming and outgoing text messages, current location data, call history with the indication of a dialog partner and conversation duration, contact lists, as well as received and sent photo and video files.

Using cryptocurrency as the primary payment method allows you to hide the transaction participants. Thus, the identification of the sender and the recipient of the payment becomes impossible, regardless of the source and the form of the request.