Ninja Net Worth: How Much Money Does Ninja Earn? Last updated: Oct 14, 2022 • 7 min read

Even if you don’t play video games yourself, you’ve certainly heard about Richard Tyler Blevins, aka Ninja.

The man even made an appearance in “Free Guy” making a big break into the mainstream!

He is one of the most prominent modern gamers and has shown us that you can get rich just by playing games online.

But how much can a gamer really earn? In this article, we’ll answer:

Who is Ninja?

How does Ninja Make Money?

What’s Ninja Net Worth in 2021?

Who is Ninja?

Richard Tyler Blevins is a famous gamer and Twitch streamer most well known for playing Fortnite. Today, he is probably the most famous gamer the world has ever seen.

Over the years, Ninja’s Net worth has increased dramatically, but how exactly did he get all his millions? Let’s find out.

Tyle Ninja Blevins Origin Story

Tyler “Ninja” Blevins was born June 5 1991 to parents of Welsh descent.

Little is known about his early life other than he lived in the Chicago suburbs and attended Grayslake Central High School where he played soccer until graduation. After school, he started playing video games competitively.

Professional Gaming Career

Tyler “Ninja” Blevins became a professional gamer at age 18. He played with various organizations like Team Liquid as a Professional Halo player.

He quickly rose up in prominence as one of the best Halo players around.

Now, he plays with Luminosity Gaming.

Ninja’s breakthrough

His big breakthrough was in 2017 when he began streaming the newly released Epic Games title Fortnite Battle Royale.

His viewership quickly grew as he became the most popular streamer on Twitch.

One of his biggest moments while streaming was when he played Fortnite with Drake, Travis Scott, and the acclaimed American Football player Juju Smith Schuster.

Awards and events

Soon, Ninja’s viewership grew exponentially, even landing him the Content Creator of the Year 2018 Award at the Game Awards.

His Ninja Vegas event broke the Twitch record for most viewers during a stream.

Ninja has also earned around $200,000 from video game tournaments. You can see him perform on Youtube.

Is Ninja a billionaire?

No, he is not. Still, Ninja makes a lot of money just from playing Apex Legends and Fortnite. If he plays his cards right, he could become one, he just needs to pick up his pace to grow his viewership again.

How Does Ninja Make Money?

Ninja makes money from a variety of places like Twitch, Youtube, and brand deals. He also has his clothing line “Team Ninja.”

While his brand has been slightly on the decline, he still has many income sources.

Twitch

His Twitch Channel still earns him a lot of money, but it’s not his main source of income.

Tyler “Ninja” Blevins is one of the few content creators who has an exclusive deal with Twitch, as he gets a 70% cut instead of the usual 50% from paid subscriptions.

Youtube

His Youtube Channel has been on the decline as of late but it is still a good source of income for Tyler Blevins.

Merchandise

Not only does Tyler Blevins have his own merch shop, but he does have products with his name on them.

Assuming that at one point he got around 1% of his viewership to buy one of his products… That’s still a lot of money.

Ninja has been sponsored by major brands such as Uber Eats, Red Bull, Adidas, and Electronic Arts.

He also has licensing deals with Wicked Cool Toys for Ninja toys and even published a book called “Ultimate Guide to Gaming”.

How Much Money Does Ninja Make Money From Twitch Streaming?

According to a recent Twitch leak, Ninja earned $1,378,791.48 over the last 26 months.

That’s around $53,000 per month from streaming alone.

But that number doesn’t take into account his Twitch earnings from his primer days or his mixer days. He doesn’t have as many revenue streams as before.

According to Ninja himself, he used to earn $500,000 monthly.

How Much Money Does Ninja Make From Youtube Channel?

As of today, Ninja’s Youtube Channel makes him around $4,800 monthly.

He uploads 3 to 5 (an average of 4) videos per week with an average of 300k views per video. So he gets around 4,800,000 views per month.

If we assume that YT pays him $1 per 1000 views, that’s $4,800.

While it may seem like a small number to some, at the same time, we have to remember that Ninja is no longer in his prime.

His monthly net worths are going to be lower.

How Much Money Does Ninja Make From Merchandise?

His Net Worth from merchandise is $1,700,000.

The average price on his site is around $50, if we take out the cost of the hoodie and logistical expenses, let’s assume Ninja earns $10 per product sold.

He has 17 million followers on Twitch, so if 1% of his Twitch subscribers has bought a product across his career, that’s still 170,000 people.

So 170,000 times ten is $1,700,000 per year.

The most common estimate is at least a $30 million net worth. Here is how we’ve come up with that number.

When Ninja signed the infamous Mixer deal (Microsoft and Facebook Gaming platform), Forbes estimated the value of that deal to be something between $20 and $30 million. After MIxer shut down, he came back to Twitch.

Electronic Arts reportedly paid him $1,000,000 to stream Apex Legends and he played competitively for a while.

And while his sponsorship deals mainly with Red Bull are sure to be valued around the millions, we can only estimate Blevins net worth.

What’s Ninja’s Net Worth?

We estimate Ninja’s net worth to be close to $30,000,000.

That’s taking into account his ludicrous expenses, his viewership decline over the last years, and his charity campaigns (which can be tax-deductible) like Feeding America.

The exact figures will only be known to Ninja and his wife.

Ninja and Video Game Streaming

Since Ninja began streaming on Twitch the streaming game has changed significantly.

This mostly male profession has opened up to allow anyone to simply create a Twitch account, start up a game and start making a living.

Now, anyone can stream from a young age and start making money from playing video games.

If you want to follow Ninja’s footsteps, feel free to check our other gaming and Twitch guides.

FAQ

What is Ninja’s net worth 2021?

Ninja Net Worth 2021 is close to $30,000,000. The lower has come down over the years as his popularity decreases. Blevins net worth can still recover with proper marketing, like that time he went into The Masked Singer.

What is Ninja salary?

In an interview, he stated that it was $500,000 monthly. But that number has changed along with his Net Worth value.

Who is the richest gamer?

It is Ninja due to all his deals. Ninja net worth is something to be proud of. But, at the end of the day, the Twitch “ecosystem” is ever-changing and he might not be tomorrow.

Can you make money playing Fortnite?

Yes, you can. Just take a look at Ninja. Net Worth-wise, his money has decreased slightly, but he still is a millionaire. It just takes dedication and willingness to play daily and steam on Twitch.

Can you make a living as a gamer?

Yes, you can. Many gamers only play a single game for a living. The thing is that it takes hard work to get to a place where gaming can be your only source of income. It also takes time and a bit of luck. Our best advice is to just go for it, just as Ninja did it himself. He used to work for a noodle company.