General Information

Local currency

Turkish Lira (TRY)

Interesting facts

Türkiye is situated on the border between Europe and Asia. To the East, it has borders with Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Iran, to the South – with Iraq and Syria, to the West – with Greece and to the North - with Bulgaria.

The country has a coastline on the Black, Aegean and Mediterranean seas and its climate is diverse - from temperate to Mediterranean in the south. In administrative terms, Türkiye is divided into 81 regions - vilayets. Regional governors (valiis) are employees of the Ministry of Interior of Türkiye.

The capital Ankara is located on the Ankara plateau in Central Northern Turkey and is the second largest city after Istanbul. Istanbul is the only city in the world located on two continents and the largest city in Türkiye: its population numbering over 12 million people, but it is assumed that the entire metropolis is inhabited by more than 20 million people.

Crime and security

Street thefts are common in the tourist areas of Türkiye. In big cities, especially Istanbul, it is advisable to avoid visits to the outer high-risk neighbourhoods.

Customs requirements

Upon entry into the country by car, it is necessary to produce the documents of the vehicle, a valid driving license, as well as international insurance (green card) valid for the corresponding period of stay in Turkey. If the vehicle is owned by a third party, an authorisation is required, accompanied by a certified translation into Turkish or English. Upon entry into the country, customs authorities place a stamp in the passport of the driver of the vehicle, which is crossed upon leaving.

Road traffic

Large cities in Türkiye are characterised by intense road traffic.

The urban public transport system is very well developed and apart from buses, there are taxis, route taxis, metro and marine lines.

The national road network of the country is in very good condition. Speed limits are being strictly adhered to: in non-urban areas - 90 km/h (for buses and vans - 80 km/h), on safe highways - 120 km/h (for buses and vans - 100 km/h), in settlements - 50 km/h

The highway from Edirne to Ankara uses a toll tax system. Toll tax is required for crossing the bridges over the Bosporus. Toll taxes are not paid in cash but by an electronic card (KGS) which must be purchased and filled with cash at the border or at the first counter point on the highway. Gas stations in Türkiye are regularly located along the main roads and easily accessible, many of them working around the clock. Fuel prices often vary even within a day but on average is about 4:32 to 4:45 Turkish Liras for unleaded petrol and 3.85 to 3.90 Turkish Liras for diesel