Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. The atrocities of the Jewish Holocaust during World War II resulted in the genocide of six million Jewish Europeans, approximately two thirds of the Jewish population. One would think the world would learn from this, but a region in Africa called Darfur has seen upheaval among its citizens that have resulted in half a million people killed under the rule of the President Omar al-Bashir. In what country is Darfur located?



Answer: Sudan



The conflict and civil war in Sudan, in addition to the genocide that occurred over the years, resulted in Sudan being split into two countries in 2011. The Darfur conflict officially began in 2003, but the unrest had begun in a series of civil wars starting in 1956 when it gained its independence from Great Britain.



The population of Sudan in 2000 was 27 million people, so 500,000 people lost is a significant amount.

2. 2020's Tropical Storm Cristobal never reached the status of hurricane, but it left a swath of rain starting in the Gulf of Mexico and uncharacteristically didn't stop until it reached the Canadian border. The level of tropical depression hitting Canadian territory, originating in the Gulf of Mexico, had not happened in 120 years. But that storm was vastly more memorable than Cristobal. Forming before storms were named, with what city is the 1900 hurricane associated?



Answer: Galveston, Texas



Death rates from Tropical Storm Cristobal in 2020 seemed to run in the single digits. That was not the case when the Galveston Hurricane of 1900 became the deadliest disaster in American history, even still after 120 years. Estimates were anywhere from 6,000 and 12,000 deaths at the start of the century, but many media reports then were at 8,000 Americans losing their lives. And even Canada was affected; storm surges and high winds caused capsized ships and losses of life there as well because of it. Considering that Canada contains the Atlantic coast, to have the Galveston Hurricane still in the top 10 deadliest Canadian hurricanes after 120 years, and it went through 1400 miles of the United States before reaching Canada shows the sheer force of that storm cell.

3. The tragic and unnecessary death of George Floyd in Minnesota caused protests, which escalated into rioting and looting across many locations in the United States. All of this even before the trials of the policemen involved have happened. The riots were an eerie reminder of riots that occurred in California in 1992, but those exploded, not over the acts of police, but over the acquittal of the four police officers involved in the brutal beating of an unarmed man that occurred in 1991. What was the name of the man thrust into the limelight he never wanted?



Rodney King



The other three names are three of the officers who were involved in the incident. The riots escalated quickly in the Los Angeles area upon the announcement of the not guilty verdicts on April 29, 1992. With a city burning, Rodney King came forward with the now immortal lines, "Can't we all just get along?" Answer:The other three names are three of the officers who were involved in the incident. The riots escalated quickly in the Los Angeles area upon the announcement of the not guilty verdicts on April 29, 1992. With a city burning, Rodney King came forward with the now immortal lines, "Can't we all just get along?"

4. The housing bubble of 2008 took a big hammer to the American economy. With an influx of home sales hinging on ballooning mortgages that were given to people on wire thin budgets to begin with, the housing market collapsed, and with it, the economy. But it was not the first economic bubble to burst; it wasn't even the first that decade. The first occurred in 2000. What name was given to that bursting bubble?



Answer: Dotcom Bubble



The dotcom bubble of the 1990s arose from a combination of the personal computer becoming a necessity in the household, a decline in interest rates so people had extra capital to invest, and a glut of ".com" companies popping up everywhere ready to be invested in on the NASDAQ trade board. With trillions of dollars being invested in these companies, many of which had never earned a profit, it was a speculative process that business gurus started to see under the layers of the onion in 2000. With Microsoft getting taken to court, Japan going into a recession, and these new companies running out of money, suddenly companies were laying off their full workforce and fiberoptic companies who couldn't lay line fast enough to meet the internet demand went dormant.

5. Early in World War II, Adolf Hitler followed through on his desire to overtake Russia in June, to "allow the German race to expand and flourish" in his eyes. Not preparing for what a Russian winter would do to his army, the operation, code name "Barbarossa", retreated in December of 1941 after six months. This invasion in so many ways eerily mirrored a point in history when another leader attempted to invade Russia in June and left in defeat six months later. Who was the leader behind this attempt that was doomed to be repeated by the Third Reich?



Answer: Napoleon Bonaparte



Adolf Hitler actually owned books written by Napoleon Bonaparte, so there had to have been foreshadowing in his mind about how an invasion of Russia could go, especially when he started five months before a Russian winter started. Estimates of Napoleon's attempts to take over Russia resulted in 800,000 troops lost, many to hypothermia from early winter temps as low as -22F (-30C). Hitler's army didn't experience temperatures that low, but the army had not prepared at all for winter chills, and the army was easily overcome in many moments of the war on Russia once December rolled around.

6. John F. Kennedy was assassinated on November 22, 1963 in what was the most infamous assassination in American history since April 15, 1865 when Abraham Lincoln was assassinated. History repeated itself in several ways beyond the fact that both were American presidents. Which of these is one of the facts that repeated between the two events?



Answer: Men named Johnson succeeded both of them



Lincoln's Vice President, Andrew Johnson, ended up being the first President to be impeached. Kennedy's Vice President was Lyndon Baines Johnson, who opted to not run for a second elected term. This led to the election of Richard Nixon, the second President to be impeached.

7. The worst pandemic plague in recorded history, nicknamed the Black Death, resulted in at minimum 75 million deaths in the 1300s, or approximately 30 to 50% of the Eurasian population. There is another plague that officially began in 1981, that had it begin earlier in our world's history, could have been considerably worse. But with medical advances vastly improved over every previous generation, the death toll for this is a fraction of what it could have been. Originally called GRID, what is the name of this "plague" with a near 100% mortality rate in the 1980s?



Answer: Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome



Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is the virus that causes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). Original diagnoses happened in 1981, and once it was figured out it was a new disease with no prior knowledge associated with it, it was also figured out it had no survivors early on, and certainly, at that time frame, no cure. According to WHO, 37 million people have died from AIDS in the forty years of its known existence - not the numbers of the Black Death by any means, but had viral research not come up with the drug AZT as a push back to keep the virus dormant, the number could have been considerably higher.



Some African countries still have high numbers of HIV infections.

8. In 1912, the Titanic ended up with the worst success rate in maritime history when it collided with an iceberg and sank in the Atlantic Ocean. With so many safety procedures not followed after the impact, 68% of all aboard perished. Disasters like this should not repeat themselves, but a tragedy of even larger scale happened in 1987 when a passenger ferry collided with an oil tanker, and approximately three times as many people were killed as lost their lives as on the Titanic. What was the name of this Filipino ferry that was the last ride for over 4,500 people?



HV Dońa Paz



With over 7,000 islands comprising the Philippines, ferries are common between islands, but, sadly, a poor safety record is just as common. The recommended capacity of Dońa Paz was less than 1,500 people, but some estimates say over 4,000 people were on board.



The tanker's petroleum cargo caught fire instantly, and the fire spread to the Dońa Paz. The few survivors claimed that the lights went out on the Dońa Paz within seconds, and that the life jackets were locked up. After names and settlement claims submitted by relatives to the government were tabulated over years of research, the final number of casualties they came to on both ships was 4,385.



This set the record for highest number of casualties on a peacetime shipwreck. Answer:With over 7,000 islands comprising the Philippines, ferries are common between islands, but, sadly, a poor safety record is just as common. The recommended capacity of Dońa Paz was less than 1,500 people, but some estimates say over 4,000 people were on board.The tanker's petroleum cargo caught fire instantly, and the fire spread to the Dońa Paz. The few survivors claimed that the lights went out on the Dońa Paz within seconds, and that the life jackets were locked up. After names and settlement claims submitted by relatives to the government were tabulated over years of research, the final number of casualties they came to on both ships was 4,385.This set the record for highest number of casualties on a peacetime shipwreck.

9. Sandy Hook Elementary School brings many vivid memories of where they were when they heard of the unimaginable horrors that occurred there December 14, 2012. But history has faded on equally horrific acts that happened in 1927. Choosing explosives over a gun, an elementary school was targeted and 44 people were killed, 38 of them children. Where was this event?



Answer: Bath Township, Michigan



Andrew Kehoe had recently lost his position as treasurer of the school, and disagreed how the tax dollars were being used on the school. But taking his revenge to ugly extremes, he wired his farm home and the school with explosives and set up an elaborate plan for detonation to eliminate the people his views were against, and apparently was not concerned for all the lives and collateral damage that would happen with it. Kehoe also wired his truck with shrapnel-laden explosives which he drove to the school after the school's bombs went off. Committing a cowardly suicide, he killed four more after detonating his truck. Amongst all the carnage, one bit of good news: 500 pounds of explosives were found still intact in the opposite wing of school from where the explosives went off. Had they detonated with the other side of the school, the school would have been completely destroyed and casualties would have been grossly inflated.

10. The Permian-Triassic Era of Earth's history, 250 million years ago, is associated with an event that according to prehistoric scientists have only happened five times in our Earth's history. And some scientists say our treatment of the planet is leading to the sixth time of this occurring. In fact, we might be in the early throes of it as we speak. What is possibly happening to our Earth in our current days?



Answer: Mass extinctions



The Permian-Triassic Era witnessed the largest mass extinction event with marine species diminished approximately 95%, and land vertebrate species seeing about 70% gone forever. It is estimated that 57% of all species went extinct. Most indications are that mass volcanic activity was the cause.



The reason that scientists are concerned we have started another cycle of mass extinction (cycles aren't overnight, the Permian-Triassic Era lasted 15 million years) is that extinctions in our current state are at three to twelve times the normal rate. With that being the case, we could be seeing another mass extinction occurring without our even realizing it.

Source: Author Spaudrey This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor ponycargirl before going online.Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.