I’ve been up all night trying to think of any possible way to de-escalate this war — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) October 9, 2022

Speaking for myself here, this is one of the top three things that I want to see out of a MAGA Republican-controlled Congress. I want to see either an end or massive cuts to U.S. foreign aid to Ukraine. I want as little American involvement in the war as possible. I want them to follow the lead of Trump himself on this issue who is calling for a negotiated settlement to end the war in Ukraine.

Washington Post:

“KYIV, Ukraine — As American officials pore over maps tracking developments in Ukraine’s counteroffensive against Russia, their Ukrainian counterparts are monitoring a different kind of contest back in the United States: the upcoming midterm congressional elections. In Kyiv, Ukrainians voice hope, and some apprehension, that next month’s legislative polls won’t undercut the staggering flow of U.S. weapons and security aid that Washington has authorized since the start of President Vladimir Putin’s Feb 24. invasion. And they warn that a softening of Republican sentiment has the potential to sap a recent surge in battlefield momentum. … “So it means that we are getting into this danger waters of making Ukraine a partisan issue, and support for Ukraine a partisan issue,” Kaleniuk said. Fears, however tentative, that American support could falter, are creating a sense of added pressure in Kyiv. …”

As I have explained, the only thing that I consider a higher priority than defunding the war in Ukraine is Joe Biden’s abuse of civil liberties through his weaponization of the FBI and the DOJ.

There isn’t much that a MAGA Republican Congress can accomplish with Joe Biden in office as president. It can 1.) unleash hell on the FBI and DOJ by impeaching Merrick Garland and defunding and investigating the FBI as the 1/6 Committee has done for the last two years and 2.) it can defund Zelensky. It can also bring judicial confirmations to a screeching halt and block Joe Biden’s legislative agenda thereby transforming him into a lame duck president under siege from Congress for the next two years.