Featured Article "This page shines bright!" - Featured Star

This article is featured. This article has everything the wiki has the best to offer.



Authoritarian Capitalism (AuthCap), is an economically right wing, authoritarian and culturally ambivalent (though usually right-leaning) ideology advocating for a system in which a capitalist market economy exists alongside an authoritarian government. Authoritarian capitalists argue that by utilizing elements of Capitalism, regimes may more effectively employ modern technologies to suppress dissidence towards government. In addition, it is argued that capitalist free-market policies leads to an increase in authoritarian policies. The core of this argument lies in the view that citizens will support whichever regime provides the most material comforts.

Authoritarian capitalism is often associated with, and mistaken for, State Capitalism, an economic system in which the state undertakes business and commercial economic activity, and where the means of production are organized and managed as state-owned enterprises. The former has a higher degree of economic liberalization than the latter.

History

Cuba

Fulgencio Batista - Fulgencio Batista was former president of Cuba twice (1940-1944 and 1952-1959), in addition to being a former military officer and former senator . He was one of the main leaders of the 1933 coup/Revolt of the Sergeants, in which, along with Dr. Ramón Grau, he overthrew President Carlos Manuel de Céspedes y Quesada in 1933, was later elected in 1940.

In the first presidency, he helped the US in World War II, declaring war on the Axis countries, ended up leaning to the left, having a considerable amount of regulations and taxes, in addition to declaring himself a democratic socialist, also being supported by socialists.

After the first presidency, he was a senator and founding leader of the Progressive Action Party. In 1952, with support from the Cuban army, he led a coup d'état, overthrowing President Carlos Prío Socarrás and taking over as president/dictator.

In his second presidency, he took a different position than the 1st, taking out regulations, increasing inequality, opposing unions and powering corporations. There was an improvement in the economy and development, in addition to higher salaries, but there were still high social inequalities, even lacking basic sanitation. The Cuban government at the time became known for its relations with organized crime and governmental hedonism, becoming known as "La Vegas of Latin America" ​​for its resemblance to La Vegas, because of the casinos, nightclubs, prostitution and drugs, housing millionaire businessmen and mobsters. (Meyer Lansky and Lucky Luciano), making Cuba even appear in the movie The Godfather 2. He also legalized homosexuality, but it was only to favor homosexual prostitution, gay bars and nightclubs. There were cases of corruption (especially with mafiosi) and almost a transformation into a narco-state, especially marijuana and cocaine, being abundant and very used. The Cuban government had become a police state, known for its brutality and authoritarianism, which an estimated 20,000 civilians were killed, in addition to its dependence on the United States, especially military and economic, for its anti-communism and having been an ally, even if later had disagreements.

With various social problems, corruption and inequality, opposition to his government grew, but they were violently repressed, causing the rebels to create guerrillas, in which the best known was the July 26 Movement, led by Fidel Castro, Raúl Castro and Ernesto Che Guevara. . The Movement made insurgencies with guerrilla tactics, having support from Yugoslavia, in which they tried to overthrow some of them before the revolution, but failed, having to flee. Subsequently, the Cuban Revolution took place, in which the movement (along with others) overthrew Batista on December 31, 1958 and Fidel Castro became the president, supported by the USSR.

He fled Cuba and was exiled to Portugal under Salazar, living on the island of Madeira, dying of a heart attack in Guadalmina (Spain) on August 6, 1973.

Rafael Guas Inclán - Rafael Guas Inclán was president of the Liberal Party of Cuba, former governor of the province of Havana and former vice president during the Fulgencio Batista government. He was a supporter of the Batista government and was elected mayor of Havana, but he did not take over because of the Cuban revolution, taking refuge in Chile. He supported the CIA and wanted to join Brigade 2506 before the Bay of Pigs invasion, but was rejected because of age, however his son died in the fighting. He died in 1975 of natural causes.

Manuel Artime - Manuel Artime was a former military man, who originally fought alongside the rebels against Batista, so much so that after the revolution, Artime participated in the National Institute of Agrarian Reform (INRA) and promoted the work of Comandos Rurales, supporting the then regime. The situation changed after the Cuban government began hunting counter-revolutionaries, in which he resigned from INRA and exiled himself with Jesuits in Havana, later going to the US, receiving CIA recruitment and training, closely involved with officer Gerry Droller. . He participated in a group with dex officers, both receiving training and assessments on Useppa Island and in Panama, landing in 1961 by Brigade 2506, participating in the failed Invasion of the Bay of Pigs, being captured by the Cuban government in the same year. He was released in 1962, joining President John F. Kennedy in a welcoming ceremony for the brigade's captives. He participated in the counterrevolutionary unit AMWORLD, with attacks on coastal installations in Cuba, but the unit was abolished under Lyndon B. Johnson. Other things involved would be a failed attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro and organized the Miami Watergate scandal.

Erneido Oliva - He was a Cuban soldier who graduated from the Artillery Academy in 1955, being an instructor at the Caribbean School of the US Army in panama canal zone between 1958-59. Even with the purge of the military after the Cuban revolution, he was still appointed Inspector General of INRA, but ended up participating in a group that planned a campaign against Castro in 1960, in which he left the army in the same year, which, along with other 40 young people, was trained in Guatemala by the CIA. He became deputy commander of Brigade 2506, participating in the Bay of Pigs invasion at the behest of Pepe San Roman in 1961, but was caught by the Cuban government in 1962 after the Cuban government ransom the three Brigade leaders. Along with Artime and others captured from the brigade, they sided with John F. Kennedy in a welcoming ceremony and developed a good relationship with Attorney Robert F. Kennedy. It was involved with the Cuban Project, led by Manuel Artime, carrying out coastal attacks in Cuba, having its headquarters in Costa Rica and Nicaragua, but ended up being terminated in the LBJ government, after the death of JFK. Even so, he remained anti-Castro after several military appointments, founding the Cuban-American Military Council (CAMCO) to promote cooperation with the anti-Catro Cuban military. In 2008, Oliveira won the Heritage Award, a few years later he was appointed to the Board of Governors of the United States Organizations (USO) by then President George W. Bush. He ended up dying on January 30, 2020 from natural causes.

Singapore

Singapore is an example of authoritarian capitalism, in which it is the country with the most economic freedom in the world according to the Heritage Foundation, but is regarded as a failed democracy according to the Economist Intelligence Unit and 47/100 at liberty according to Freedom House. No elected president was from any party other than the PAP, homosexuality is prohibited, all media (radio, newspapers, television channels, among others) belong to companies linked to the government, in addition to the internet being restricted with the excuse of "fighting terrorism" or "racial or religious tensions", among other authoritarian measures, making Singapore known as "Disneyland with the death penalty", being accused by William Gibson of being a Capitalist Technocracy.[12]

Lee Kuan Yew - Lee Kuan Yew (1923-2015) was the first Prime Minister of

The future leader of Singapore got a job with the Japanese propaganda department (Hōdōbu) in late 1943, as an English specialist. As Lee came to anticipate that the British Allied Forces would re-invade their former colony he quit his job at the Japanese propaganda department and spent the remainder of the war engaging in private enterprises and black markets. After being forced to kneel in front of a Japanese soldier he came to realize that the Japanese were a far more cruel and vicious occupying force than Singapore's former British colonizers. Lee Kuan Yew now understood that no Empire had the right to rule over them and that the people of Singapore would eventually have to take matters into their own hands and push for independence and self-determination.

After the war and Japan's surrender to the Allied Forces, Lee got a Queen's scholarship and went to study abroad in London where his anti-colonial sentiments kept growing. He returned to Singapore in 1950 together with his wife Kwa, determined to end British colonial rule and create a unified and independent Malaya and Singapore. Lee turned heavily to the city's Chinese-speaking community and trade unions and was willing to cooperate with regional communist movements as he sought to create a popular front. The People's Action Party (PAP) was founded in 1954 and eventually, Lee sought to purge the Party of his former communist allies in wake of the 1956 Chinese Middle School riots.

The People's Action Party won its first electoral victory in the 1959 election and with Lee Kuan Yew appointed as Singapore's first prime minister. He initially sought to unify Singapore with Malaysia but ethnic conflicts and ideological differences led to Singapore becoming a sovereign city-state in 1965. Lee and the PAP had overwhelming parliamentary control at every election and oversaw Singapore's transformation into a developed high economy country, with a highly effective, anti-corrupt government and civil service.

Lee eschewed populist policies in favor long term social and economic planning and did everything he could to attract foreign investment for multinational corporations. Singapore consistently ranks at the top of the World Bank's "Ease of Doing Business Report."

However, Lee's rule has been described as authoritarian by critics, with accusations of curtailing press freedoms, imposing narrow limits on public protests, restricting labor movements from strike action through legislation, and co-option, and bringing defamation lawsuits against political opponents. Lee Kuan Yew finally stepped down as Prime Minister in 1990 after over 30 years in power.

Lee Hsien Loong Lee Kuan Yew's eldest son Lee Hsien Loong has served as Prime Minister of Singapore and Secretary-General of the People's Action Party (PAP) since 2004. Although Lee Hsien Loong isn't quite as authoritarian as his father, other political parties still don't stand much of a chance against The PAP. Caning is still a widely used form of corporal punishment in Singapore. Press Freedom remains very low with journalists and netizens critical of the ruling party being forced to pay heavy fines for expressing their opinions.

The United States

Joseph McCarthy was an American politician and attorney who served as a Republican Senator from the state of Wisconsin from 1947 until his death in 1957. The term "McCarthyism" was coined in the 1950s in reference to McCarthy's widespread

From the year 1950 onwards McCarthy frequently exploited Cold War tensions and the fear of communism and even began to investigate homosexuals working in the foreign policy bureaucracy, on the ground that they were prime candidates for blackmail by the Soviets (See: Lavender Scare). Said baseless accusations against homosexual government workers received wide publicity and gained him a powerful national following.

McCarthy's methods also brought on the disapproval and opposition of many. With the highly publicized Army–McCarthy hearings of 1954, and following the suicide of Wyoming Senator Lester C. Hunt that same year, McCarthy's support and popularity faded. Ultimately, the smear tactics and threats that he used led him to be censured by the U.S. Senate.

Mexico

W.I.P.

Guatemala

W.I.P.

OperationCondor

Operation Condor was an operation between 1968 and 1989 in South America, which took governments from the left and placed capitalist dictatorships. The operation is known for its anti-communism and being an example of "American imperialism". The affected countries were: Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Bolivia, Chile and Paraguay and their supporters were:

South Korea

Park Chung-hee was a dictator in Buddhism with Protestantism, banned the Chinese language and implanted nationalism.

The Philippines

W.I.P.

Japan

W.I.P

Indonesia

Suharto was an Indonesian army officer and politician, who served as the second and the longest serving president of Indonesia through a repressive military dictatorship from 1967 until his own resignation in 1998.

The future military dictator grew up under the Dutch Colonial Era and joined the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army (KNIL) in June 1940 at the age of 19. During the Japanese occupation era, Suharto changed allegiance to serve in the Japanese-organized Indonesian security forces, PETA. After the Japanese surrender in the Pacific to the Allied, independence leaders Sukarno and Hatta declared Indonesian independence and were appointed president and vice-president respectively of the new Republic. Under the new government, Suharto joined Indonesian Army to fight the Dutch forces who had returned to take back control over their former colony. Throughout the 1950s, as a colonel, Suharto would crack down hard on uprisings of Dutch collaborators and Islamic extremists. Throughout the rule of socialist Sukarno, the Communist Party of Indonesia, PKI which was closely affiliated with Sukarno’s regime, increased massively in numbers and popularity upsetting both the Indonesian military and the US who would do anything to prevent a communist take-over in the country.

Due to a combination of Sukarno’s extensive nationalizations, autarky, and foreign sabotage by the CIA, the economy of Indonesia deteriorated rapidly, resulting in widespread poverty and hunger and foreign debt obligations became unmanageable, and infrastructure crumbled.

On 30 September 1965, six generals were killed by a group calling themselves the 30 September Movement who alleged a right-wing plot to kill the President. General Suharto led the army in suppressing the abortive coup attempt who blamed the PKI for. After the events surrounding the 30 September Movement of 1965, General Suharto took control of the country in a Western-backed military overthrow of the Sukarno-led government in an event that came to be known as the Transition to the New Order. What followed was the Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66, large-scale killings and civil unrest that occurred in Indonesia over several months, targeting PKI members, communist sympathizers, Gerwani women, feminists, ethnic Javanese Abangan, and ethnic Chinese among other dissidents that were suspected to hold left-wing views. The Indonesian genocide was directly supported by the US, British , and Australian intelligence services which provided weapons and logistical support for the Indonesian army and “kill lists” of suspected dissidents. According to the most widely published estimates, at least 500,000 to 1.2 million people were killed over the course of 2 years.¨

In 1966 to 1967, to promote assimilation of the influential Chinese Indonesians, the Suharto government passed several laws as part of the so-called "Basic Policy for the Solution of Chinese Problem", which included banning all Chinese cultural and religious expressions from public space, prohibition of Chinese schools, and encouraging ethnic Chinese to take Indonesian-sounding names.

Suharto proceeded with social engineering projects designed to transform Indonesian society into a de-politicized "floating mass" supportive of the national mission of "development", a concept reminiscent to corporatism. The New Order regime created and required all civil servants and employees of the state- and local government-owned enterprises. and those of Bank Indonesia to join KORPRI (the Employees' Corps of the Republic of Indonesia) to ensure their loyalty.

Suharto enlisted a group of mostly US-educated Indonesian economists, dubbed the "Berkeley Mafia", to formulate government economic policy to solve the economic crisis left by the Sukarno-era. By cutting subsidies and government debt, and reforming the exchange rate mechanism, inflation dropped from 660% in 1966 to 19% in 1969. Sukarno's economic autarky policies were reversed by opening selected economic sectors of the country to foreign investment under the new Foreign Investment Law of January 1967 and foreign companies that had previously nationalized were re-privatized and returned to their original owners. The government began a series of large-scale intensive investments in infrastructure under a series of five-year plans. Indonesia experienced massive economic growth during the New Order coincided with rapid expansion in corruption, collusion, and nepotism as Suharto would use his dictatorial rule to enrich himself and his family and cronies.

In 1974, the neighbouring colony of Portuguese Timor descended into civil war after the withdrawal of Portuguese colonial authority following the Carnation Revolution, whereby theleftist-leaning Fretilin emerged triumphant. Western governments persuaded Suharto to intervene in East Timor to prevent socialism from prevailing in the former Portuguese colony. Suharto authorised a full-scale invasion of the colony on 7 December 1975 followed with its official annexation as Indonesia's 27th province of East Timor in July 1976. The United States under Gerald Ford and Jimmy Carter furnished over $250,000,000 of military assistance to Indonesia between 1975 and 1979. An estimated minimum of 90,800 and maximum of 213,600 conflict-related deaths occurred in East Timor during the Indonesian occupation that lasted until 1999.

Suharto ruthlessly suppressed elements that he perceived the New Order society. From 1983 to 1985, army death squads murdered up to 10,000 suspected criminals in response to a spike in crime rate. Attacks on police by the resurgent Gaddafi-aided Free Aceh Movement in 1989 led to a brutal military operation that killed up to 12,000 people, mostly civilians.

By the 1980s Western concern over Communism waned with the end of the Cold War, leading Suharto's human-rights record to come under greater international scrutiny and the New Order regime lost much of its support from the western governments that helped its rise to power in the first place. By the 1990s, elements of the growing Indonesian middle class, created by Suharto's economic development, were becoming restless with his autocracy and his family's brazen corruption, fueling demands for reform of the 30-year-old New Order system.

By 1996, Megawati Sukarnoputri, the daughter of Sukarno and chairwoman of PDI, was becoming a rallying point for this growing discontent. In response, Suharto backed a co-opted faction of the PDI led by Suryadi, which removed Megawati from the chair. On 27 July 1996, an attack by soldiers and hired thugs led by Lieutenant-General Sutiyoso on demonstrating Megawati supporters in Jakarta resulted in fatal riots and looting. Suharto's grip on power weakened following severe economic and political crises that stemmed from the 1997 Asian financial crisis. The economy suffered a flight of foreign capital, leading to a drastic drop in the value of the Indonesian rupiah, which severely impacted the economy and people's livelihoods. Persuaded by US President Bill Clinton, Suharto turned to IMF and accepted their structural adjustment programs to bring Indonesia out of the economic crisis. However, things did not get better and in May 1998 massive riots broke out triggered by corruption, and economic problems, including food shortages and mass unemployment. Many within the Military government actively supported the riots as they had too lost faith in Suharto’s reign.

On 21 May, Suharto, resigned and was replaced by former Vice-President B.J Habibie, and the New Order Military Regime finally came to an end with a period of political reform ("Reformasi") followed that would lead to the transition to democracy.

Russia

W.I.P.

China

W.I.P

Kazakhstan

Nursultan Nazarbayev is a Kazakh politician who served as the first President of

After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Nazarbayev turned Kazakhstan into a kleptocratic dictatorship, through the ruling party Nur Otan and like many other post-communist countries, as human rights abuses were severe, dissent was suppressed, and elections were not free and fair, with Nazarbayev regularly winning over 90% of the vote. Nazarbayev established a cult of persona, with schools, streets, and even the country's capital being named after himself. In contrast to other Post-Soviet leaders such as Alexander Lukashenko of Belarus or Sapamurat Niyazov of Turkmenistan, Nazarbayev went beyond state capitalism and actively pursued privatization of industries and encouraged foreign investment by multinational corporations. During his 3-decade-long rule he managed to balance international relations between both Russia, the US, and China. Nazarbayev went to great lengths to maintain close economic ties with Russia by introducing Kazakhstan into the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) and the Eurasian Economic Union (EEU) while also pursuing close cooperation with NATO, and participating in China's Belt and Road Initiative.

Nazarbayev's dictatorial rule would face much resistance on multiple occasions. Most notably by businessman and political activist Mukhtar Ablyazov who lives in exile in Europe because of his political activities and corruption charges. In December 2011, opponents of Nazarbayev rioted in the Mangystau region, resulting in 15 people being shot dead by security forces, in what was known as the Zhanaozen massacre and subsequent trials and arrests of protestors revealing widespread torture and abuse of detainees. In March 2019, Nazarbayev finally resigned from the presidency amid anti-government rallies and was succeeded by his close ally Kassym-Jomart Tokayev.

Kassym-Jomart Tokayev - After Nazarbayev's departure in 2019, Tokayev assumed the presidency of Kazakhstan. After taking office, he adopted some reforms over time, such as decentralization, increasing wages, decreasing corruption, ending capital punishment, a slight decrease in authoritarianism, and other reforms. Economically, he supports the private sector, in addition to adopting fiscal policies (inflation control, tax incentives, etc), increasing cryptocurrency mining, building plants. Even after Nazarbayev left, the Kazak government continued to be extremely authoritarian, as in the case of the "bloody January" that took place after demonstrations against the sharp rise in gas prices, in which the government repressed with an iron fist, with military intervention supported by the Organization of Collective Security Treaty (CSTO), but still protests escalated and became more violent, along with discontent over inequalities and the plight of the government. The government called the protesters terrorists and continued the repression, in total 227 people died and thousands were arrested, in addition to the government taking into account some of the protesters' agenda (inequality, gas price, etc).

Kyrgyzstan

W.I.P

Ukraine

W.I.P

Tunisia

W.I.P.

Egypt

Hosni Mubarak - Hosni Mubarak was a former president, former vice president and briefly former prime minister, in addition to have had a military career. As a military man, he trained in the Soviet Union, entering the Frunze Military Academy in Moscow, returning to Egypt afterwards. In Egypt, he became commander of the air force academy, in which he doubled the amount of pilots, having a supposed strong participation in the Yom Kippur war, in which the pilots hit 90% of the targets, becoming a national hero. . There have been claims that he changed documents in the Yom Kippur war to favor himself, taking credit for Saad El-Shazli (according to the general's daughter), while others claim he played a greater role psychologically.

As vice-president of Anwar Sadat, he tried to disassociate himself and disengage Egypt and other countries from Israel, as in the case that he tried to make a disengagement agreement, but was blocked by the then president of Syria Hafez Al-Assad. He also improved relations with Saudi Arabia and royals, as well as a certain power in international relations and opposing the Camp David Accords.

He came to the presidency in 1981, after the death of Anwar Sadat. As president, Egypt was suspended from membership in the Arab League because of Sadat's previous peace treaty with Israel, but ended up moving even closer to Saudi Arabia. After the alleged threat of Khomeini in the Islamic world and the Iran-Iraq war, there was a rapprochement between Egypt and the League, especially its support for member countries (such as Iraq and Jordan), making Egypt join the Arab League in 1989. Mubarak's government, there was a strong increase in the economy, services, housing, medicines, etc..., in addition to being pro economic freedom and the Egyptian state employing 8 million people. Many accuse him of anti-Semitism and police authoritarianism, also having reports of various methods of torture and sexual abuse by police, as well as an autocracy. He maintained strong relations with the US and a certain dependence on the economy, but there were some divergences between the two and a slight improvement with the USSR. One of the outstanding things about his government was the corruption and family plutocracy, in which there were accusations that his family could have up to 70 billion with illegal activities (bribery, embezzlement, illegal trade...), in addition to increasing corruption involving entrepreneurs. He was a strong opponent of Islamic radicalism, being pro-secularism, in which jihadists have already tried to assassinate him.

After the detonation of a bomb next to a Christian church in Alexandria in 2011, several Christian and Muslim people began to protest against their government and its police brutality, which after the fall of Ben-Ali in the Arab Spring, the protests intensified. . After Egypt experienced economic problems, protests reached hundreds of thousands, causing Mubarak to resign in the same year.

Ahmed Nazif - Ahmed Nazif was Mubarak's former prime minister and former Minister of Communications and Information Technology, known for his combination of technocracy and neoliberalism. As prime minister, he was accused of wasting money and corruption, but the Egyptian courts found him not guilty. As Minister of Communications and Information Technology, he was known for encouraging investment from international markets and IT, in addition to free internet and private markets, also promoting outsourcing, preventing brain drain, increasing the means of communication (even though Egypt is a dictatorship), among other improvements that won him the Medal of First Degree of Science and Art in Egypt.

Nigeria

W.I.P

Liberia

W.I.P

W.I.P

South Africa

Lennox Sebe - Lennox Sebe was the first president, former chief minister and responsible for the independence of the Ciskei Bantustan, also being the founder and leader of the National Independent Party Ciskei.

As president, he ruled Ciskei with an iron fist, creating a dictatorship that persecuted opponents, unions (such as the Allied Workers Union of South Africa, banned in 1983), strikers and even some anti-government family members such as his brother Charles Sebe tried to overthrow him, but failed and was later arrested. After his prison break, Charles kidnapped Sebe's son in 1987, causing Sebe to release some politicians in return. He also had very close contact with Israel, creating a commercial office in Tel Aviv, he even claimed that Israell had given recognition to Ciskei, but the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied it.

During a state visit to Hong Kong, Brigadier General Oupa Gqozo staged a coup d'état in 1990, being the penultimate president of Ciskei. After the presidency, he was accused of corruption and human rights violations.

Rwanda

Paul Kagame - Paul Kagame is an ethnic Tutsi and the current President of Rwanda, former President of the African Union, former Vice President, former Minister defense and ex-military from both Rwanda and Uganda. As a military man, he participated in the Bush War and resistance against Idi Amin, joining Museveni's army, FRONASA, later also joining the Popular Resistance Army. Later, along with Fred Rwigyema, they joined the Rwandan Patriotic Front. Along with Fred Rwigyema, they fought in the Rwandan Civil War, with the RPF becoming a guerrilla war against Hutu presidents, who planned to exterminate the Tutsis, triggering the Genocide in Rwanda. Even though he managed to defeat the government, stop the genocide and save lives, many question his methods, especially his appreciation for the power and alleged extremism of some RPF members.

As defense minister, he was accused of attacking Hutu refugees in Congo, as well as having participated in Congo's wars against Mobuto, even though he had allegations of human rights abuse against Kagame. He tried civic nationalism, with a government not dominated by Tutsis, but there were accusations of quarrels against Hutus.

After scandals of corruption and mismanagement, then-President Bizimungu resigned in 2000, leaving the post to Kagame, even though he had claims Bizimungu was a puppet of Kagame. He won 3 elections in 2003, 2010 and 2017, but there were accusations of state interference to ensure Kagame's victory. In his government, there were several improvements, especially economic and social, in general, the most notable measures are:[13]

Having condemned the main actors involved in the genocide in Rwanda and having condemned the UN's lack of action against the genocide. Reduction of extreme poverty that in 2000 was 58.9% dropped to 44.9% in 2012. Vaccination of 97% of children against ten different diseases. Average increase of 7% of GDP per year. Vetoing a bill in 2009 that intended to criminalize homosexuality. 61.3% of Rwanda's parliament is composed of women. Liberalization and debureaucratization of the economy. Investment in poverty alleviation and technology. Decreased corruption.



Even with improvements in some aspects, there are still numerous accusations of human rights abuse, such as killing opponents even outside the country, such as the case of Patrick Karegeyana and the attempted murder of Kayumba Nyamwasa. The South African government accuses Kagame of killing opponents in his country. In addition to the Democracy Index classifying Ruando as a dictatorship, more authoritarian than Russia.

Édouard Ngirente - Édouard Ngirente is the current prime minister of Rwanda chosen by Paul Kagame after the 2017 elections, he was also a former mechanical consultant to the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, former adviser to the Executive Director of the World Bank and former professor at the National University of Rwanda. When prime minister, he encouraged foreign investment, tax payments, environmental preservation, support for Kagame, better relations with other African countries and increased infrastructure.

Pakistan

W.I.P

Bangladesh

Sheikh Hasina was Prime Minister of

She is considered to be Bangladesh's first female minister, who in the first time in power in 1996, she signed the water sharing treaty with India and started opening up to the private sector such as the telecommunications industry and the introduction of NIP ( New Industrial Policy), allowing foreign companies to open subsidiaries. The Awami League (her party) lost the 2001 elections, causing her to leave, even though she claimed the elections had been a rigging. After the defeat, she was part of the opposition to the later government.

She won the 2008 elections, serving as prime minister for the second time, having 3 consecutive terms. She has been accused of various rights abuses and violence against opponents, in addition to having been accused of corruption and having rigged the 2018 elections, suffering a coup attempt in 2012 by Islamic extremists. She called for further development of postal services in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

Cambodia

W.I.P.

Vietnam

Nguyễn Tấn Dũng is one of the most influential and notable Vietnamese modern-day politicians who served as the Prime Minister of

Nguyễn Tấn Dũng and like-minded Vietnamese politicians cultivated an environment of corruption and nepotism making the bribery of local officials a necessity for many Vietnamese citizens to get by. Press Freedom deteriorated rapidly during his reign with netizens often being forced to pay heavy fines for criticizing the CPV's regime. Nguyễn Tấn Dũng's influence in Vietnamese politics has decreased significantly in recent times due to losing a power struggle to the current General Secretary of the CPV, Nguyễn Phú Trọng.

Ecuador

León Febres Cordero - León Febres Cordero was a former president of Ecuador, former mayor of Guayaquil, former senator and former deputy. As a deputy in 1966, he participated in the drafting of the new constitution, approved in 1967. In 1968, he was a senator representing the productive sectors until parliament was dissolved in 1970. He ran for president in 1984, for the Christian Social Party, which made a coalition called the Frente de Reconstrución Nacional. With the slogan "Bread, roof and jobs", he won the elections with 51.54%.

In his government, he made a strong confrontation with the parliament, especially for not making a considerable increase in salary, but a little higher than inflation. An important aspect was his fiscal and neoliberal policy, in which he improved the management of public spending, making the economy grow and have surpluses. Another economic aspect of Febres Cordero was the increase in non-oil exports, reaching 1.8 billion dollars, in addition to strong investments in construction (especially hospitals), roads, health and culture, reaching 15% of the central banks , generating 5% profit.

There were numerous accusations of corruption, especially in the armed forces with over-invoicing, being evident in the case that even involved kidnapping, called "El Taurazo". There were several cases of death squads that carried out torture, kidnapping, murder and sexual abuse against some opponents, such as activist Consuelo Benavides. His government had a violent response against the Alfaro Vive terrorist group, ¡Carajo!, dubbed the "fight against crime", even though most of those tortured were not related to the group. There was the elite group escuadrones voadores/escuadrones de la muerte, in which they repressed protests and carried out "social cleansing" against prostitutes, people of the left, LGBT people, some indigenous people and transsexuals. This elite used mutilation and torture that left the survivors with permanent physical deformities, being financed by the private sector. Among other scandals, they did not run in the 1988 elections, being succeeded by Rodrigo Borja Cevallos.

as mayor of Guayaquil, he decentralized and practiced a social market economy and modernization of the city.

Serbia

W.I.P

Bosnia and Herzegovina

W.I.P

Montenegro

W.I.P

Bulgaria

W.I.P

Turkey

W.I.P.

Azerbaijan

W.I.P

Iraqi Kurdistan

Kurdistan refers to Iraqi Kurdistan, the autonomous zone, not the proposal

Nechirvan Barzani - Nechirvan Barzani is the current president of Kurdistan, a two-time former prime minister and a former member of parliament. He is a member of the KDP and entered parliament in 1993, in which he made negotiations with the Iraqi government for Kusdistan. In the meantime he was briefly former prime minister.

In the times as prime minister and president, he made several reforms, expanded women's rights, secularism, economic improvement for a time, investments by foreign corporations, developmentalism (education, health, etc) and among others. In 2014, Kurdistan suffered from ISIS in the Middle East and millions of refugees, generating economic recession in the region, in which he helped refugees and later Yezidi captive survivors (3,340 rescues).

Even with the attempt at civic nationalism, there were numerous accusations of discrimination against ethnic minorities, human rights violations, repression of peaceful protests, forcing of Kurdish culture (Kurdification) and other violations. There are allegations of corruption by him and the Barzani family, including systematic corruption, embezzlement of millions of dollars and corruption involving businessmen, most leaked by WikiLeaks.

Libya

W.I.P

Grenada

Eric Gairy - Eric Gairy was a former Prime Minister, former Chief Minister and former Minister of Finance in Grenada. Initially, Gairy was mostly leftist, participating in unions and even founding a labor party, the United Labor Party of Grenada, causing him to be banned and lost his seat in 1957-1961. In 1961, he was re-elected and became chief minister and finance minister, but was fired the following year over questioned uses of state funds.

When he became former prime minister, the country was in post-independence civil strife, in which Glairy created a secret police called the Mongoose Gang to pursue political opponents. He rigged the 1976 elections through the use of his secret police, also using it to persecute communists from the New Jewel Movement, generating street violence even with other gangs. In 1978, he sent scientists and an astronaut to the UN to talk about UFOs. Even with the US government helping the then-government, many US citizens supported the anti-Glairy revolutionaries and activists. In 1979, after a visit to the US, there was a rumor that he would kill the New Jewel leaders, in response, Maurice Bishop overthrew the Glairy government and established a communist dictatorship, even generating anti-Glairy activism in the US.

The American government went into exile from 1979 and 1983, returning to Grenada in 1893, participating in elections which he lost and dying in 1997.

Iran

W.I.P

Qatar

W.I.P.

Fiji

W.I.P

Personality and Behavior

Authcap acts like his father capitalism but more authoritarian and more willing to use the state for personal gain. May or may not like helicopters like his son Pinochetism.

How To Draw

Flag of Authoritarian Capitalism

Draw a ball with eyes. Color the ball black. Draw a yellow inverted triangle in middle of the ball. Draw a green dollar sign in the middle of the triangle.

Color Name HEX RGB Yellow #FFFF00 255, 255, 0 Green #00FF00 0, 255, 0 Black #141414 20, 20, 20

Relationships

Friends

Frenemies

Enemies

Gallery

Credit: u/AidenI0I Source

Credit: Spadist

Lee Kuan-yew Thought

Ibrahim Babangida Thought

McCarthyism

Original image



Old

Further Information

Wikipedia

Videos



