About Friday 14th October 2022. World News. Today: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM Episode

World News in 7 minutes. Friday 14th October 2022.Support us and read the transcripts at send7.org/transcriptsToday: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM. Nigeria Cameroon Cocoa. Slovakia shooting. Chad democracy. US Jones fined. Mexico military. Spain lucky baby.Please leave a rating on Apple podcasts or Spotify.With Stephen Devincenzi.Contact us at podcast@send7.org or send an audio message at speakpipe.com/send7If you enjoy the podcast please help to support us at send7.org/supportSEND7 (Simple English News Daily in 7 minutes) tells the most important world news stories in intermediate English. Every day, listen to the most important stories from every part of the world in slow, clear English. Whether you are an intermediate learner trying to improve your advanced, technical and business English, or if you are a native speaker who just wants to hear a summary of world news as fast as possible, join Stephen Devincenzi and Namitha Ragunath every morning. Transcripts can be found at send7.org/transcripts. Simple English News Daily is the perfect way to start your day, by practising your listening skills and understanding complicated stories in a simple way. It is also highly valuable for IELTS and TOEFL students. Students, teachers, and people with English as a second language, tell us that they listen to SEND7 because they can learn English through hard topics, but simple grammar. We believe that the best way to improve your spoken English is to immerse yourself in real-life content, such as what our podcast provides. SEND7 covers all news including politics, business, natural events and human rights. Whether it is happening in Europe, Africa, Asia, the Americas or Oceania, you will hear it on SEND7, and you will understand it. For more information visit send7.org/contact

Related Tags - Friday 14th October 2022. World News. Today: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM, Friday 14th October 2022. World News. Today: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM from Simple English News Daily - season - 1, Simple English News Daily - season - 1 Friday 14th October 2022. World News. Today: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM, SEND7 Friday 14th October 2022. World News. Today: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM, Listen Friday 14th October 2022. World News. Today: EU Borrel Russia nuclear threat. UN supports Ukraine. China congress. Iraq new President and PM

Released on Oct 14, 2022 Duration 08:54 Language English

© SEND7