The gathering storm, so long denied, is now so strong as to be uncontainable. The quarter from which it will break is in doubt, that it will break is not. We'll discover who the real preppers are after the first hard blasts roll across the land. In war this is known as "first contact with the enemy", the violent unraveling of faulty imagining that exposes the viable core, if any. -The Woodpile Report 24DEC19

I often see articles about SHTF and CWII, but no one talks about the real threats. It’s always about prep and preppers.

Well, the real deal is nothing you can fully prepare for.

All that you can try to do is prevent it, and get out of the way, if you fail. That is it. Oh, and do not expect the UN to step in. They are a useless and worthless organization if anything.

But it won’t end there.

History is very clear on what happens when one society demonizes another group within that society. They demonize them, then they isolate and disarm them. Then they imprison them. Then they do with them as they please, and then they kill them.

While the men are killed, the women and children will be raped

No one will be spared. You must egress out of the danger areas, and avoid all cities. If you need to fight, then strike at the leadership, their enclaves, and their captains. Do not fight a defensive war, YOU WILL LOSE.

At the same time in many Bosnian cities this scenario was being repeated: Serbian soldiers would come into a city. They had lists of intellectuals and people in power and with influence. Firstly they killed many of them.

They had lists…

Lists…

“The President has put in place an organization with the kind of database that no one has ever seen before in life,” Representative Maxine Waters told Roland Martin on Monday. “That’s going to be very, very powerful,” Waters said. “That database will have information about everything on every individual on ways that it’s never been done before and whoever runs for President on the Democratic ticket has to deal with that. They’re going to go down with that database and the concerns of those people because they can’t get around it. And he’s [President Obama] been very smart. It’s very powerful what he’s leaving in place.” -The Gateway Pundit

Lists…

List of people. Lists compiled over the years. Lists with names and place and addresses and threat levels.

Lists…

Few horrors compare to the killing fields of the Cambodian genocide. Over four short years, from 1975 to 1979, Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge systematically exterminated up to 3 million people. The people of Cambodia had to live in fear, knowing that they might be the next one dragged out to the killing fields. The chances of being chosen were indeed high – by the end of the massacre, the Khmer Rouge had wiped out nearly 25 percent of the population.

They collected the people on the lists.

They separated the men from the women.

Then they put men and women in the main square, or in the street, or in front of their houses. They separated the men from the women, the men were killed or transported to the concentration camps and women were raped in public. They publicly raped very old women or very young girls. Then the remaining women were driven by cars, buses or trucks to big empty buildings, like schools, department stores, hotels or empty factories, and were held there in order to be raped. -Biserinternational

This is what always happens.

This always happens.

It always happens.

Expect it.

Do not be caught off guard.

During these times and types of conflicts it is NORMAL for women, and girls to be abducted, raped repeatedly and then killed. This is a historical norm.

This is something that is assumed, but we are all unaware of just how widespread this will be.

Oh, it will be everywhere. It will be horrific. It will be shocking. It will be horrible.

Raped and killed. You need to either prepare to fight, or flee. What ever you do, do not get snared into a collection area for your own safety. It is not going to be safe. As this young lass learned. Do not trust refugee camps. Do not trust the government. Do not trust ANYONE. And, finally, do not allow yourself or your family to be disarmed. Learn to fight both with guns and blades. Hide and protect yourselves, and take special note where the progressive liberals live in your neighborhood. They have the lists that your name will be on.

The progressive democrats already think nothing about having sex with three years olds, and then killing them.

What do you think they will do to your family when they have their hands tied behind their backs and on their knees in front of radical progressive urban blacks? What do you think will happen?

ISIS sex slave at a slave auction in an occupied region of Syria. During periods of change, the plight of women is always a dangerous one.

Image what would happen once they have total control of the government, the police and the military. Imagine just what would happen if they were the only ones who held the guns, and they were the only ones in control of the means of communication.

The Liepāja massacres were a series of mass executions, many in public or semi-public, in and near the city of Liepāja (German: Libau), on the west coast of Latvia in 1941 after the Nazi occupation of Latvia. The main perpetrators were detachments of the Einsatzgruppen, the Sicherheitsdienst or SD, the Ordnungspolizei, or ORPO, and Latvian auxiliary police and militia forces. - Liepāja massacres

Imagine what would happen when the Muslim faction of the progressive liberal democrats take control of a town.

Once a political ideology takes control, rape of opposition females becomes the norm. The mean are typically killed and women and children are raped, often violently and repeatedly.

They will have this control. They will get this control, and the results will not be pleasant.

They want you disarmed; compliant and on a bended knee.

They fully intend to do what they want with you, and no one and nothing has been stopping them. They fully believe that they can continue to push, and push and push and nothing would ever happen.

Here is a picture that was taken during World War II. Location Germany. Subject; Civilian German woman who were systematically stripped, raped, and then killed. This is what happens when the Government loses control of society. This is what big wealthy oligarchs want. They want to “prune” the Human society for their own personal profit. It is not pretty.

The majority of the assaults were committed in the Soviet occupation zone; estimates of the numbers of German women raped by Soviet soldiers have ranged up to 2 million. According to historian William Hitchcock, in many cases women were the victims of repeated rapes, some as many as 60 to 70 times. At least 100,000 German women are believed to have been raped in Berlin, based on surging abortion rates in the following months and contemporary hospital reports, with an estimated 10,000 German women dying in the aftermath. Female deaths in connection with the rapes in Germany, overall, are estimated at 240,000. Antony Beevor describes it as the “greatest phenomenon of mass rape in history“, and has concluded that at least 1.4 million women were raped in East Prussia, Pomerania and Silesia alone. According to Natalya Gesse, Soviet soldiers raped German females from eight to eighty years old. Soviet and Polish women were not spared either. When General Tsygankov, head of the political department (a "Diversity Officer") of the First Ukrainian Front, reported to Moscow the mass rape of Soviet women deported to East Germany for forced labor, he recommended that the Soviet women be prevented from describing their ordeal on their return to Russia. -Learning History

Progressive liberals in the community will report on all goings on. They will create lists. They will single out people, and they will make the necessary arrangements for the people to be handed over to the proper authorities. Authorities that will rape and then torture and kill them. Know your history. SHTF and CWII are a very real possibility.

According to a former army officer:

“We were young, strong, and four years without women. So we tried to catch German women and … Ten men raped one girl.

Shamed in public, raped repeatedly, then killed with the others. This is common and ALWAYS happens.

There were not enough women; the entire population ran from the Soviet Army.

So we had to take young, twelve or thirteen-year-olds.

.

Woman being loaded up into army trucks to be “processed”. Which is a code word for being stripped naked, systematically raped, and then killed if no other purpose could be found for them. Coming soon to America unless YOU are prepared to stop it from happening.

.

If they cried, we put something into their mouths. We thought it was fun. Now I can not understand how I did it. A boy from a good family… But that was me.”

.

Once a political ideology takes power, they are ruthless in their treatment of opposition. They will kill you, and if you are a woman, they will rape you and then kill you. There will not be any mercy. It is better to die fighting when they come to your house, than to accept the lies that they will put you into “protection” for your own best interests.

On June 29 and June 30, 1941, there were random shootings of Jews in Liepāja by German soldiers. About 99 Jews (plus or minus 30) were killed in these shootings. Shootings began almost immediately. For example, at 5:00 p.m. on June 29, arriving German soldiers seized 7 Jews and 22 Latvians and shot them at a bomb crater in the middle of Ulicha street. At 9:00 p.m. the same day German soldiers came to Hika street, where they assembled all the residents and asked if any were refugees from Germany. One man, Walter (or Victor) Hahn, a conductor who had fled Vienna in 1938, stepped forward and was immediately shot. The next day, June 30, soldiers went to the City Hospital, arrested several Jewish physicians and patients, disregarded the protests of the Latvians on the hospital staff, and shot them. Among the victims was 10 year old Masha Blumenau. -Liepaja Massacres

.

Raped and then killed. This is the fate for most targeted women from the ages of 10 to 40. Those outside will probably just be killed. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

A woman telephone operator from the Soviet Army recalled that:

“When we occupied every town, we allocated the first three days for looting and … rapes. That was unofficial of course.

German Grenade during World War II.

.

But (some degree of order needed to be restored) after three days one could be court-martialed for doing this. … I remember one raped German woman lying naked, with hand grenade between her legs.

.

In Poland, once the Germans captured the areas, they rounded up the population. They singled out the women, and raped those that they chose, and killed the rest. The remains were often not buried. Just left above the ground for the animals to scavenge.

.

Now I feel shame, but I did not feel shame back then… Do you think it was easy to forgive the Germans?

We hated to see their clean undamaged white houses. With Roses. I wanted them to suffer. I wanted to see their tears. … Decades had to pass until I started feeling pity for them.”

.

Do NOT be under the impression that the people that you need to worry about will be organized police or DHS officers. Bands of progressive liberal democrat socialists will patrol and harass the outlying communities. They will…WILL be armed by the instigators of this genocidal event, and they WILL be protected by the government and the police. These people are who you will need to watch out for because they will be ideological.

.

Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn took part in the invasion of Germany and wrote a poem about it: Prussian Nights: “Twenty-two Hoeringstrasse. It’s not been burned, just looted, rifled. A moaning by the walls, half muffled: the mother’s wounded, half alive.

Stripped nude. Raped, and then killed. This photo was taken the moment the officer shot the woman holding her child.

.

The little daughter’s on the mattress, dead. How many have been on it? A platoon, a company perhaps? A girl’s been turned into a woman, a woman turned into a corpse. . . . The mother begs, “Soldier, kill me!”

.

Ideologically motivated progressive democrat Marxists, mostly from the urban areas will be armed via prepared caches of weapons, and trained to terrorize the surrounding communities; to create strife and discord. They will continue to play “wack a mole” only with your life.

In August 1992 I went to Croatia, which was as close as I could get to Bosnia-Herzegovina. It was there that I met Mirsada, a sixteen year old girl who had been raped. I will try to keep her in my mind, because I liked her from the moment I met her and I tried to help her, trying not to act pitifully towards her. She had been detained in a concentration camp near Teslic for 4 months with her mother and sister. She was raped approximately 80 times per day. At the time I met her, she was heavily pregnant (in her sixth month). After she gave birth to a baby girl, she gave it up for adoption and left for Denmark. She never saw her daughter. I never asked her to talk to me about this as I was afraid my interest would appear disrespectful and that it might hurt her. But once, when we were just sitting and talking, she told me that when she was in the concentration camp she was not allowed to sleep because the soldiers would constantly come for her, never giving her the time or space to sleep. This was the first time that the situation in which this girl and many other women found themselves really became clear and close to me. -Biserinternational

Systematic rapes. I guess that this would NEVER happen in the USA. After all, there are elected representatives that have the best interests of Americans at heart. </sarcasm> Listen to me. Really. Honestly. Listen to me. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

Conclusion

The staggering number of corrupt prostituted sociopaths occupying positions of power within the government, corporations, media, military, churches, and academia has created a morally bankrupt empire of debt. These sociopaths are not liberal or conservative. They are not Democrats or Republicans. They are not beholden to a country or community. They care not for their fellow man. They don’t care about future generations. They care about their own power, wealth and control over others. They have no conscience. They have no empathy. Right and wrong are meaningless in their unquenchable thirst for more. They will lie, steal and kill to achieve their goal of controlling everything and everyone in this world. This precisely describes virtually every politician in Washington DC, Wall Street banker, mega-corporation CEO, government agency head, MSM talking head, church leader, billionaire activist, and blood sucking advisor to the president. -Us vs. Them

While traditional Americans, conservatives, and Trump supporters might get frustrated in the “politics” and news, the truth is something very sinister.

.

Raped. Killed, and chopped up. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

Please take notice that every one has their hands tied behind their backs. Do not allow this to happen to you. When America was first founded NO ONE allowed the British Red Coats and their LOYALISTs to tie their hands behind their backs.

.

Unless the President and the appointed Congressional representatives get a handle on a rogue government and judicial bench, the United States is heading towards a very dark time. It will be a very dark time indeed.

When a progressive liberal socialist government takes control, one of the first things that they do is silence all the opposition. They do so permanently.

No. It will not go away. No, it will not get better.

The oligarchy; the richest people in America and other Globalists around the world have planned together in order to orchestrate a genocide against those that wish to prevent a global-world-dictatorship.

Ever see this image before? Why not? This is the face of war! And people, America has been at war with a minimum of at least one nation per year. Today it is fighting eight wars. Well, this is what happens during war. It is not pretty. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

This is a truth, and they have NOT put their plans on hold. They are just biding their time until they regain control of the Presidency.

If Hillary Clinton had won her rigged 2016 Presidential election and was then inaugurated as POTUS 45, America would have entered a very dark period. It's unlikely The Republic would have survived it. As Rex explains, Obama had already started building a totalitarian system. Clinton would have turned it into a dictatorship.

Know your history. The oligarchy always initiates a genocide in order to obtain more control over a region. It is a time-tested method of amazing success.

A serious effort MUST be taken NOW to stop an out of control train that is about to slam smack into a brick wall. It will happen. It really will. Those who want to have their heads in the sand and believe that it will go away or morph into something else is deluded.

“Go back to bed, America. Your government has figured out how it all transpired. Go back to bed, America. Your government is in control again. Here. Here’s American Gladiators. Watch this, shut up. Go back to bed, America. Here is American Gladiators. Here are 56 channels of it! Watch these pituitary retards bang their fucking skulls together and congratulate you on living in the land of freedom. Here you go, America! You are free to do what we tell you! You are free to do what we tell you!” ― Bill Hicks

It is going to get a lot worse, and serious action steps must be taken to avoid the train wreck that is destined to occur.

Execution of the last jew in a German city. Once the progressive socialists start to demonize another group or people, they will not stop until EVERY ONE IS DEAD. they will not stop. They will not stop. They will not stop. They will not stop.

Other Opinions

Here are some opinions by others who have read this article. A surprisingly large number of them do not agree with me.

They believe that America is robust, and that a “shooting war” or a “hot situation” will never happen in the United States.

It will NEVER happen in the United States.

According to the nay-Sayers, all the nonsense from the political left in America is just antics for the media. No serious trouble or problems will ever come of it. There is no need to be concerned, because their representatives in Congress will defend and protect them.

At worst, they believe is that control of the population will be completed by electronic means and no violence will ever come to pass. People will just continue on their “normal” lives, without any serious concern regarding violence.

They believe that any of this progressive nonsense about “white privilege” and “manliness” will eventually (somehow) disappear. They have not taken into their calculus that the United States today is embedded with PC commissars who’s job is to foment anti-white sentiment and hatred.

It will NOT go away. It will get worse.

Like this comment…

The conditions for that are very rapidly being put into place. That’s the Chinese/Google/Apple Social Credit score. We will trade in our guns in order to be able to buy food and gasoline and airfare, etc. - 12/22/2018, 5:16:37 AM by arthurus (gfv)

The base is woke and the Establishment’s a joke. I speak to a lot of conservative groups of various types and flavors: hardcore tea partiers, patriotic vets, loyal radio listeners, besieged students, brass New Yorkers, even rich country club types who you would think were into Jeb! – you know, diversity. And lately, I’ve tended to start off my talks by posing this question:“Okay, who here agrees with me that the left wants us enslaved or dead?” Every hand goes up. Every single one of them. That’s our base. Folks, our base is hella woke. -Kurt Schlichter

Urban youth have been indoctrinated for decades, and are ideologically motivated to attack “white privilege” with a dangerous zeal.

After all, according to the elected officials, the Bill of Rights doesn’t mean what it says…

When a group of people are demonized, it becomes easy to kill them. It becomes attractive and by killing them, it is like emptying the world of pollution. Like… for instance, Global Warming.

Yet, many have commented that the Bill of Rights is robust enough that there is no need to be concerned. This belief is one that they cling to, even when ALL the evidence says otherwise. In fact, there are people that are proposing a “sensible Bill of Rights”, you know, for the new progressive reality.

THE BILL OF "NON-RIGHTS We The Sensible People of The United States "In an attempt to help everyone get along, restore some semblance of justice, avoid more riots, keep our nation safe, promote positive behavior, and secure the blessings of debt free liberty to ourselves and our great-great-great grandchildren, hereby try one more time to ordain and establish some common sense guidelines.

Sensible.

Sounds so very nice. Sensible. Like this fellow here who is commenting on what to do when 20 armed police come to your house to collect your guns…

"If so, politely request to see a court order of seizure and confiscation. Try to get a copy of it duly signed, along with the supporting signed affidavit if there is one. No sense having a shoot out resulting in death, unless you have a whole gang of patriots with you. Larger numbers can make the police back down. The 2nd amendment survives because of Freedom of Assembly and Freedom to travel. - 12/23/2018, 6:16:50 PM by Candor7

My comment is that I hope that this will be the case. However, history shows and has proved that a law, and a rule is only as good as it’s enforcement.

Know your History.

Old newspaper article. What? You never heard of this… maybe because it was on page 24 next to the advertisement for a sale on canned peas. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

Many in government, most especially the progressive liberal democrats, believe the laws are what they say they are, and nothing more. They are “living laws” and subject to the interpretation of the user.

“The illusion of freedom will continue as long as it’s profitable to continue the illusion. At the point where the illusion becomes too expensive to maintain, they will just take down the scenery, they will pull back the curtains, they will move the tables and chairs out of the way and you will see the brick wall at the back of the theater.” – Frank Zappa

Here is what happens when you politely request to see a court order. Actual photo of what happens when you don’t turn over your guns to the police when they ask you to.

Look at the picture carefully. Study it.

He said no and wanted to see documentation from the police. He wanted to see an order from the judge. This is what happened seconds later.

What happens when you refuse.

Of course, not every police officer will shoot. There are stories where the police tackled the “holdouts”, and disarmed them by force. Then, carted them off for interrogation. These are the “happy stories”.

So, if you are fortunate…

You can simply stand on your rights as a citizen. You just ignore those guns they carry. They are only for decorative purposes. They have no right to use them against you as a citizen. I know. I read the advice from comments found on Free Republic. They told me so.

Of course, there are other things that can happen. Just because the most common response from a failure to turn in your guns is to be killed, doesn’t mean that you will be killed. You situation could be different. Like this, if you are a woman…

Woman found in Bosnia by military forces. She had survived months of rapes and was found muttering and unable to communicate in long sentences. A cigarette was helpful. I do not know what happened to her after the patrol found her.

And, I do believe that there are a few others who agree with me on that…

Actually, those twenty guys will be using a no-knock warrant and kicking your door down, and shooting your dog first, before they shoot you. They are not going to ask nicely. If you survive... you can ask for a copy of their warrant. - 12/23/2018, 9:29:49 PM by Ouderkirk

War is not pretty. It is horrific. People die, they are raped, maimed and disfigured. This is a dangerous time. You MUST not take any chances. The socialist Marxists want you disarmed. They have plans and nearly full control of the government. They will FORCE you to comply. Do not. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

Know your history

On June 29, 1941, a detachment of Einsatzkommando 1a, (EK 1a) under SS-Obersturmbannführer Reichert entered Liepēja.

During World War II, the Nazi German Einsatzkommandos were a sub-group of five Einsatzgruppen mobile killing squads – up to 3,000 men total – usually composed of 500–1,000 functionaries of the SS and Gestapo, whose mission was to exterminate Jews, Polish intellectuals, Romani, homosexuals, communists and the NKVD collaborators in the captured territories often far behind the advancing German front. -Wikipedia

People KNOW your history.

It is historically well-known that societies are not stable. They always need periodic resets. The USA has been primed for one for at least a century.

It is going to be a Hellish shit-storm.

You can either sit it out or participate. There are no other options.

People who do not meet the ideological criteria are singled out and put on lists. Then commandos and tiger teams go forth and gather them up. They are then “processed” which often means torture and rape, and then they either become slaves or are killed. Know your history.

One of the first people EK 1a killed, on June 30, was the musician Aron Fränkel, who, not knowing that Einsatzkommando had set up headquarters at his place of employment, the Hotel St. Petersburg, showed up for work.

He was identified as a Jew and immediately shot.

The city of Liepaja today. It is a beautiful city. It is filled with parks and a nice waterfront. In 1941, it was the scene of numerous massacres.

When the Germans invaded Russia, the Soviet units set up a defensive position in and around Liepaja. The Soviet forces had dug defensive trenches in Rainis Park (Raiņa parks) in the center of Liepāja. (See the photo above.)

On July 3 and 4, 1941, was the first documented massacre in Liepēja. Reichert’s EK 1a men, all Germans of the SD, rounded up Jews and marched them to the trenches dug in the park.

Once at the trench, they were shot and the bodies pushed in.

On July 3 and 4, 1941, was the first documented massacre in Liepēja. Reichert’s EK 1a men, all Germans of the SD, rounded up Jews and marched them to the trenches dug in the park. Once at the trench, they were told to face the trench and were shot. Then their bodies were kicked into it.

How many were killed during these shootings is not known. Estimates range from several dozen to 300.

After the war, the Soviet Union investigatory commission concluded that 1,430 people were killed in the park shootings. One participant, Harry Fredrichson, later testified that in one massacre he participated in, 150 people were killed. This event is known as the Rainis Park massacre

The Jäger Report is the most precise surviving chronicle of the activities of one Einsatzkommando.It is a tally sheet of the actions of Einsatzkommando 3 — a running total of their killings of 136,421 Jews (46,403 men 55,556 women, 34,464 children), 1,064 Communists, 653 mentally disabled, and 134 others, from 2 July-1 December 1941. - Einsatzkommando

When SHTF and CWII occurs, there will be nothing to count on. There will be no government. Only “THE ENEMY”. You will be on your own. Meanwhile you will hear gunshots, and hear stories of complete families being culled, raped, and killed. But disarmed, you are just a rabbit in a pen waiting for slaughter.

Let’s not ever forget the words of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. He penned these words while he was suffering inside a progressive liberal communist hard-labor camp in Siberia…

"And how we burned in the camps later, thinking: What would things have been like if every Security operative, when he went out at night to make an arrest, had been uncertain whether he would return alive and had to say good-bye to his family? Or if, during periods of mass arrests, as for example in Leningrad, when they arrested a quarter of the entire city, people had not simply sat there in their lairs, paling with terror at every bang of the downstairs door and at every step on the staircase, but had understood they had nothing left to lose and had boldly set up in the downstairs hall an ambush of half a dozen people with axes, hammers, pokers, or whatever else was at hand?... The Organs would very quickly have suffered a shortage of officers and transport and, notwithstanding all of Stalin's thirst, the cursed machine would have ground to a halt! If...if...We didn't love freedom enough. And even more – we had no awareness of the real situation... We purely and simply deserved everything that happened afterward.” ― Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn

People, the “event” will NOT be televised.

China when the social Marxists took over. Not pretty. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

You will not see reports of it on CNN, MSNBC, or twitter reports. It will be planned in advance, and implemented in carefully crafted stages, and by the time you are aware of what is going on, it will be too fucking late.

You, and your family, will be in a position of disadvantage.

An unidentified skull. A man shot in a field in Serbia during the government genocide during the 1990’s. He has not been identified. Don’t let your legacy follow the same path. Be different.

Key Reminders

“White Privilege” means “Scheduled for Genocide”.

“Diversity Officers” collect names, put them on lists.

Never permit yourself to be disarmed.

You need to be lethal, and not afraid to use a weapon.

“Door to door gun collection” means SHTF is about to happen.

All genocide originates from the wealthy leadership.

Stay away from crowds.

When ordered to report to mass collection points – run for the woods.

Your neighbors WILL turn you in.

Any gun is better than none. But, realize that the aim is to kill not to threaten. AK clones are really generally useless. Concentrate on shotguns if you cannot find a decent accurate weapon.

Epilogue

With all the evidence pointing to a clash between Conservative traditionalists and Progressive socialists, it might be prudent to get out of the line of fire and protect yourself and your family.

With a potentially dangerous future ahead, would it not be prudent to step out of the way? Find a relatively safe place to be. Relocate there and establish yourself and a business there? It is prudent.

There are numerous posts on this subject. I urge the reader to either seriously ready themselves for a future battle, and take the necessary advantages to get ready for it, or leave to a “safe harbor”. Please kindly give these posts your every consideration.

What ever happens, you don’t want your loved ones to end up like this…

Village woman taken by the German soldiers and raped. Then hung by a rope. For humor they tore open her blouse to expose her breasts, but that was censored. As a plus, they put a German garrison cap on her head.

Take Aways

The SHTF and CWII will happen because there is no one undoing the pre-genocidal preparations for it. As such, we can expect the following truths…

You will not know there is a full-on Civil War until you are in the midst of it.

The American Second Civil War (CWII) will be a genocidal event of enormous scale.

There will be an organized effort to disarm prior to the war. It may or may not happen.

The timetable for the war has already been established. It’s going to happen whether everything is in place or not.

The real danger of the progressive liberal army lies well hidden from public scrutiny. It is kept intentionally hidden. Just like in Rwanda, the conspirators held very secret meetings, and had secret handshakes, and shirts that they wore to identify each other. Chess pieces are moving into place.

Once your hands are tied and bound behind your back it will be too late.

Diversity Officers and their confederates will have you already earmarked as subversive.

Whole-scale mass murder will be the norm.

There will not be any Bill of Rights to protect you when the police are run by progressive liberals.

Refugee camps will be dangerous and unhealthy places to be trapped in.

The news media will not be reporting anything but the most trivial events. At that, it will be slanted in favor of progressives.

Conservative websites and news might be blocked or difficult to access.

(October 14, 1942). It will be far, far worse once the progressive liberal socialists, funded by billionaire oligarchs will do to the American people in the “red” states. SHTF is going to get frighteningly real. Why? Because exactly zero people are dealing with the “diversity officers”. Zero people are dealing with the media. Zero people are dealing with the software moguls. Zero people are dealing with the deep state. Zero people are dealing with activist judges. That is why and YOU know it is true.

SHTF is going to get frighteningly real.

Why? Because exactly zero people are dealing with the “diversity officers”.

Zero people are dealing with the oligarchy-owned media.

Zero people are dealing with the software moguls and their rampant abuses of the Bill of Rights.

Zero people are dealing with the deep state, and the multitudes of people in the “swamp”.

Zero people are dealing with activist judges. Absolutely fucking ZERO.

This is YOUR future once Gun Control is implemented in the United States. Make no mistake. The history is clear on this. You and your family WILL be disarmed, and you will be led to a hole in the ground, and then you will shot dead.

That is why there will be genocide in the USA, and YOU know it is true.

During one of the first bigger events of killing in the streets, I was out together with my friend who also was a medical professional. Fire from machine guns was on people who were standing in front of the main city bread factory, and people started to scream and run over each other. My first impulse was to run to the nearest cover but my friend got down to help some lady, so I stayed one meter next to him. I was confused about my decision and not sure to stay with him or run. Bullets from machine gun hit him over his legs, and I saw how his kneecap exploded. It looked like some bad movie special effect. He just looked at his legs, then at me, in silence. Even though it was just seconds, moments like this feel very long. I took him by the hands and dragged him some 20 or 30 meters to safety. Only there I saw that he was missing his leg under the knee. It stayed with the dead lady on the street. And only then he started to scream. I used a belt to stop the bleeding. The ambulance still worked in that period. He went to the hospital and then evacuated from the city. He survived but never came back. Lessons learned? In moments of chaos always listen to your instincts and do not hesitate. -The Organic Prepper

This is the face of war.

.

It is not pretty. But, it’s a royal train-wreck and it is heading out your way at full blast.

.

Do not confuse the blip on the radar screen that Donald Trump is as a reversal of this fact.

.

It isn’t.

.

It’s still coming.

.

Do not allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

These are crazed ideological Marxists

These are ideological Marxists.

.

Even though they call themselves “progressive” and open-minded liberal democrats, they are radical Marxists.

.

They are Fanatics.

.

If they had a gun in their hands, they would point it at you and pull the trigger without a moment’s thought. They have been propagandized into fanatical monsters.

.

These crazy ideological progressive liberal democrat Marxists are willing to die for their cause.

.

Listen to them. Read their writings. This is far off-the-deep-end type of stuff.

Know your history.

Tamil execution of the disarmed populace. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

Look what the ideological Nazi Germans did when they discovered that the Americans and Allies were entering Germany and arresting all the Nazi leadership.

.

They would have no part of it. They did not want to lose. They never expected to lose. They would not accept failure. (Like how the Marxists won’t accept the 2016 loss to President Trump, Eh?)

Look at their reactions…

This is a joint suicide by a Burgermeister and his family upon news that the Americans were entering the town.

.

This is not just one or two deaths.

Entire groups of ideological Nazi Germans killed themselves rather than accept defeat. The progressive liberal democrat Marxists are of the exact same ilk. They would rather die than submit to traditional conservative values.

Radial ideologues would rather die by suicide than submit to conservatives.

.

These people are “off the rails” and the non-stop forced feeding of Marxist ideology has affected their views on life. As such, they consider anyone who does not think like them as evil. They are willing to go at them in the worst way.

People, take note, these people are dangerous.

These people are ideological. They are dangerous. They follow a solid Marxist belief system, and treat all others as below them and with contempt. If given a gun, they will shot you without blinking an eye. They are very, very dangerous.

The rich oligarchy wants you dead.

Rather than fight against their proxies, they should be targeted directly. Here’s some articles to ponder and consider…

The Really Important Stuff

Everything is academic until it is happening to you.

Executions carried out by the Einsatzkommando.

.

It is easy to kill others when you consider them worthy of death. It is easy to kill them when you are taught that they were privileged and/or the cause of the worlds’ ills. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

As much as I had read about police, and IRS overstepping their authority, I never thought that it would actually happen to me.

Well it actually did, and I was totally surprised when it happened. My story is one for another time, however take heed.

Don’t be like me and get caught off guard.

Anything can happen.

And it can actually happen to you.

Nothing hits like a slap in the face like being told to turn around, and put your hands behind your back, in your own house, by machine-gun toting black-clad soldiers. Yes, in a nice quite suburb of Little Rock. Yes. It can, and WILL happen to you.

Today, the government has better resources, more lethal weapons, and better training. You will be at a great disadvantage. Your only strength will be knowledge and skill. Your ONLY advantage is knowledge and skill.

Take care and realize…

You are on a list RIGHT NOW. Actually you are probably on a couple of lists. One by the federal gun registry, one by the local “diversity officer”, and one by those monitoring your internet activities. Depending on where you live, there are also lists compiled by the local or regional ideological progressive liberals in your neighborhood. Oh yes, they exist all over America. How do you think they were able to know where Trump officials and their families eat?

Actually you are probably on a couple of lists. One by the federal gun registry, one by the local “diversity officer”, and one by those monitoring your internet activities. Depending on where you live, there are also lists compiled by the local or regional ideological progressive liberals in your neighborhood. Oh yes, they exist all over America. How do you think they were able to know where Trump officials and their families eat? Do not allow yourself and family to be disarmed. Hide your guns in three places; [1] Family house; easy to find. [2] Family hidden (hidden to everyone except family members), and [3] Hidden to everyone (including family members) but you. Only you know where the guns are. Tell no one.

Hide your guns in three places; [1] Family house; easy to find. [2] Family hidden (hidden to everyone except family members), and [3] Hidden to everyone (including family members) but you. Only you know where the guns are. Tell no one. Trust your gut feelings. If you “feel” something is wrong, even when there is nothing on the news. (This is the best information that I can give you.) Go run and hide somewhere safe. Even if that means going to a hotel. Just leave your house. (When the IRS SWAT police came for me, I felt an unbelievable feeling of dread in the middle of the night. It was quite an ugly feeling. Be aware. Do NOT shrug it off.)

It’s not about having a lot of guns “just in case”. It’s about being constantly trained to use them under HIGH STRESS situations, and being fearless about using them. If you need to think about getting the gun, it is too late. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

If it looks wrong and feels wrong, get the hell out of there. Don’t rationalize, don’t question. Act. -Charles Yor at Survival Sullivan, about conflict avoidance

“I’ve got a really bad… bad, feeling about this.”

.

Finally, the progressive left has completely saturated American society. Many members follow the dictates of the Marxists out of ignorance. Just like many Germans followed Hitler.

The next step down the ladder of decline may be so unstable that the weight of past error crashes society through to the bottom. The case for this theory of collapse is the rapidly shrinking white middle-class. The dominant culture today is one that celebrates degeneracy and barbarism. There is the growing sense that what’s left of America is not worth saving. Everyday, more and more white people come to the conclusion that the people they see in politics, the media and popular culture are incompatible with the world they want for themselves and their decedents. That old bourgeois white culture is looking at America like the family exhausted by an alcoholic relative. It’s time to cut our losses. -Z man blog

These people might have their hearts and minds in the right place, but they will turn you and your family into hamburger if given the opportunity.

Social Justice educators. They will put your name on a list and then the armed forces, whether police or something else will seek you out. It will happen. It WILL NOT BE TELEVISED. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

You will not be able to tell who is your friend or who is your foe.

While Donald Trump is undoing many terrible things, nothing is being done about the pre-genocidal conditions already put in place.

.

Unless action is taken by the President or Congress, it is just a matter of time before they will be mobilized against YOU and your family.

.

Take notice.

.

This is not your average SHTF article. This is the screaming in your face and slapping your face hard…Wake up!

.

You will be hard pressed to trust anyone. Even you very own children might be compromised. Be care. Be alert.

960403-A-2407B-008 Photo of a suburb in Sarajevo Bosnia after the fighting that took place between the Serbians and the Muslims,taken by Specialist Nadine Byrnside from the 55th Signal Company Combat Camera team, in a place called Grbavica on 3 April 1996.

.

This is not your average SHTF article. This is the screaming in your face and slapping your face hard…Wake up!

Grbavica where a huge complex was set up for the mass internment and rape of women. This is what it looked like at the tail end of the war.

.

1996. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

.

Grbavica in Sarajevo. This SHTF is coming straight your way. Do not allow yourself to be disarmed. Never allow yourself to be disarmed.

Learn from History

This was taken exactly from the most excellent blog “The Tactical Hermit“. I urge everyone to visit it and read some of the articles there. Good stuff. Like this…

Lessons From The Warsaw Ghetto August 24, 2019 Great Read. Be sure and read the two links on Lithuania. Highlights from Part one. Staple this to your Brain. 1) Government identification records are the clerical basis for mass murder and other atrocities: No, not every government ID scheme leads to genocide and expatriation. But for the collectivists of both the German Reich and the USSR, each victim’s identity card was both part of the initial targeting and the final “production record”. 2) Get to the forest early if you want to live: If you think they will be coming for you, you are probably right. Plan not to be where they know you work and live. Act early if you want to maximize your chances. You and your family will die if you are at your government-approved address. 3) The Bad People will have lots of help from your neighbors:The most disturbing moment for me in the KGB museum was not in the execution or interrogation/torture cells. It was realizing, while moving through the excellent exhibits on the mass deportations of Lithuanians after “liberation” by the Soviets in 1944, that most of the deportees (many of whom were subsequently executed or starved or died of exposure and disease) had been betrayed to the NKVD/KGB by their neighbors. 4) “Fascism” is not the only mortal enemy of freedom and life; the real enemy is collectivism in any form: At each of the memorials, one could tell the provenance of any signage by its reference to “fascism”. Mostly, such markings were from the Soviet era, during which — not coincidentally — many more millions of innocent human beings were killed by the “enlightened” Communists than had been slaughtered by the Hitlerites and their collaborators. While it is too much to expect the Soviets to acknowledge these facts, it is essential that freedom-minded folks grok that collectivism, in any form, can and usually does lead to the mass grave. 5) Never report en masse when ordered to do so: Nothing good ever happens to folks who do. 6) Food and ammunition will be the vital shortages you must address in order to live: Empty weapons and bellies a successful resistance does not make. 7) The Bad People will torture and kill those who help you: Get used to the idea. Retribution killing is a standard totalitarian play. Try to avoid jeopardizing your allies to the extent possible, but know that they too will be swept into the whirlwind. 8) The Bad People will torture and kill your family members:Sippenhaft ain’t just a chapter in Vanderboegh’s long-awaited novel. The KGB museum was filled with execution orders with notations indicating that not only had the subject been killed per order of the Party, but that “special measures” had or would be taken against the victim’s family. 9)You must be prepared to fight until victory or death: Once you go to the woods, you are there for the duration. The Baltic “forest brothers”stayed out until they were killed or captured. More on them in the next part of this report. 10) If you think it can’t happen here, you are wrong. The Polish and Lithuanian Jews who were ground into dust by the Einsatzgruppen thought the same thing. So did the Lithuanians who couldn’t believe that the Communists under Stalin and subsequent regimes would hold their passionate patriotism against them. Almost all of those folks who believed “it couldn’t happen” died. A few survived by running into the woods, or by bearing up under the brutal realities of the Gulag, year after year after year. Each of them knows the single biggest lesson from Lithuania: naked, brute force can and does triumph over kindness, love of kin and country, and simple human decency — often for decades or more. Lose your illusions. While there is still time. Stay Alert, Armed and Dangerous!

Notes at the End

Here, Mr. Dakin talks bedrock survival, not “tips for the traditional homesteader”.

Desperate times are like gravity, it needs to get the upper hand only once.

If you’re not thinking like an escapee from a Soviet gulag you’re not preparing for the worst.

And if you’re not prepared for the worst, you won’t survive the worst.

SELCO: What Combat Is Really Like

I Like this Selco, and I really think that everyone should read and head his experience. I really do not promote other’s books on this website, but I will make an exception here. Read this…

This is an excerpt from Selco’s book, The Dark Secrets of SHTF Survival. When SHTF, nobody told me how hard is gonna be and what things I would have to do to survive. There was no training or simulations. Most of the stuff I was going through for the first time in my life. I was hoping it was only a temporary situation, that it not going to last for a whole year. A few events opened my eyes and somehow made me a survivor right at the beginning. I had the luck to understand in the very early stages how hard it was and what it takes. The first lesson During one of the first bigger events of killing in the streets, I was out together with my friend who also was a medical professional. Fire from machine guns was on people who were standing in front of the main city bread factory, and people started to scream and run over each other. My first impulse was to run to the nearest cover but my friend got down to help some lady, so I stayed one meter next to him. I was confused about my decision and not sure to stay with him or run. Bullets from machine gun hit him over his legs, and I saw how his kneecap exploded. It looked like some bad movie special effect. He just looked at his legs, then at me, in silence. Even though it was just seconds, moments like this feel very long. I took him by the hands and dragged him some 20 or 30 meters to safety. Only there I saw that he was missing his leg under the knee. It stayed with the dead lady on the street. And only then he started to scream. I used a belt to stop the bleeding. The ambulance still worked in that period. He went to the hospital and then evacuated from the city. He survived but never came back. Lessons learned? In moments of chaos always listen to your instincts and do not hesitate. Especially if you are involved in a situation when someone is shooting at you with a high caliber machine gun. Just accept that people will die and you have to survive. To help others is a great thing, to survive is even better. Also, I realized that a human being is so fragile and easy to destroy. You must practice with your gear. Later I learned some things about weapons and how to use them, so I realize that more firepower does not necessarily mean more dangerous and better chance to kill. Owning a weapon is absolutely necessary when preparing for a survival scenario, even more so in urban survival. You need to go and get as close as you can to the real stuff while you are doing the preparing and training for the SHTF, so it makes sense to go out and check your preps, to check your gear, and yourself. For example, that pair of boots that you bought and store for bad days will not be used for walking only, it will be used for running, squatting, jumping, in mud, junk, blood, guts maybe or just running through a shallow river. Everything that you have prepared and stored for SHTF will be pushed to the limits. It is one thing to go out into the woods nearby and do a recording of your weapon testing on some beer bottles with your friends, and after that concluding that particular gun or rifle is best for SHTF and that you are a dangerous dude because of your accuracy rates. Some people gonna put that clip on YouTube and go home convinced that they are ready and prepared. In reality, you do not know if you are prepared until it happens. A lot of survival stores that sell things sell the idea of “buy this and you are safe.” No, you are not. You can learn more about real urban survival scenarios in my survival course and in my book, The Dark Secrets of SHTF Survival. This helps you to mentally be better prepared but the real deal when SHTF always comes as a surprise. When the time comes again it gonna hit everyone like a hammer. The good news is that when you know you will get hit like that you can recover faster and use your skills, knowledge, and preps to make the best out of the situation. Using a weapon in real life, in real survival situations, is something absolutely different from shooting beer bottles. And if you could do some real training that is realistic that would be maybe going camping for 10 days using a trash bag like a tent, with 10 small cans of food, and 10 liters of water, and then walking every day for 10 km. On the 11th day, run a few kilometers and then shoot and see how accurate you are when your body is wasting away. And still, the most important thing is missing. While you are shooting at the beer bottles they do not shoot back at you in order to kill you. During some of the first battles in the city I was moving through the building behind a guy, we both had rifles. He was sweeping the rooms and shooting, it was the closest to urban combat as it can be. At the moment when he runs out of ammo, he used his rifle as something between spear and bat. Now someone could say why he did not just switch to the pistol? He did not have one, also he did not have time to look for ammo. But there I learned how it is useful to have folded stock of rifle when shooting and moving in very confined spaces. Also, I learned that rifle with pretty sharp parts at the barrel can be very handy. He stabbed a guy to the cheek, ripping his face down and finishing him on the ground. One of the biggest misconceptions that the people who do not have fighting experience is what they just need to practice. You need to learn these important things before the SHTF. It is all about pressure. You need to learn: What your weapon can take and how to fix it In terms of kicking, throwing, how often and when will it malfunction, what the most common malfunctions are, and how to fix them – and how to fix them in the middle of a fight. If you find yourself in the middle of fighting, and your weapon “jams“ do not be, as we call it “zblesavljen.” Or in English, do not stand there looking like an idiot. I have seen that: a guy is shooting and in the middle of fighting his weapon jammed. He stopped, surprised, and looked at the weapon in a “what the f*ck?“ state. And of course, in two seconds he ends up dead. You absolutely need to know how to manage small weapon jams without looking at the weapon. You need to look at the target while you are “repairing“ weapon (clearing the bullet, switching to another magazine, etc.) Other option would be to MOVE immediately when your weapon jams, move to cover in the same second or to drop to the ground, or on your back and switch to your other weapon. But you need to learn to do all of the above without thinking. You need to train so that this becomes automatic. Small things like how quickly you can put your rifle on your back and a switch to pistol can be the difference between life and death. If you somehow “trip“ yourself while you are trying to put the rifle on your back in order to take the pistol, you can end up dead. What you can take Remember this: while you are shooting at the bad guys, those bad guys will be SHOOTING AT YOU TOO. So shooting at the beer bottles in the woods with your buddies will not really do all the training you need. I do it often, but it just does not cover everything. Fighting and surviving combat means constant moving and outsmarting the guys on the other side. You are gonna need to run, squat, throw yourself in the ditch, lay down in all kinds of sh*t, and shoot at the same time, and probably fix your rifle from jams, or switch to another weapon. Do some basic weapons training and learn about the line of sight and how to get out of it. In SHTF, a very great percentage of shooting is done without aiming. It is just spraying bullets. It makes sense to do some airsoft or paintball in the woods to check how constant moving changes the whole game, and what kind of moving will help you to survive a gunfight. For example, how often do you shoot your weapon with both hands, dominant and not dominant? In urban fighting, you will need to switch weapon around very often (moving through the apartments, rooms, around the corners, etc.). When you are shooting behind the corner, and you are having a rifle in your right hand and corner is on your left side it makes sense to transfer the weapon to the left hand. otherwise, it is dangerous to stick your left part of the body out in order to shoot from your right hand. For all of you who have some military experience, this is basic stuff, but I have seen many guys who were killed in stupid ways. A real gunfight is a dynamic thing. Adrenaline is a weird thing too, so people can do tremendous things while adrenaline is pumping, but also with lack of training and common sense guy can do tremendously stupid things. I have seen a man who was pointing to something and he stood up from the cover and got shot. How to train yourself Training is the key. You can not do anything else today except to train very hard. You can not experience real stuff today, of course, but you can take it as close to the real stuff as possible. Go out with your friends and think about all possible scenarios. Think about the worst-case scenarios. SHTF is not gonna wait for nice and sunny weather. You are gonna be maybe hungry, dirty. Maybe have to give up your shelter and food storage on the second day of SHTF. Or you may be forced to use another weapon that you are not used to. Maybe you gonna be forced to hide for hours hidden under a pile of rubble and then you are gonna be forced to jump out and “kill“ ten beer bottles. Sounds like fun? This is why resilience and mental strength is so important. Maybe you are gonna be cold and thirsty and in the middle of the battle. One thing is sure – very rarely it goes the way that you planned. So just be ready for many options and do not panic when things go another way. Want some funny-sounding advice? Get good at suffering while still being able to work towards a goal. What weapon, caliber, stopping power, etc? It is a very hard question (that I get asked a lot). But think about the fact that everything today is mainstream and commercial. And somehow it is more about what other people say is good and not necessarily about what you need and what is good for YOU. You and your hand kill, the weapon is only a tool. I have seen the fight when a man with a knife killed the guy with a rifle. He had mastered fighting with a knife and had the will to kill. The other guy had a rifle but he ended up dead. I also saw more than once people shot with rifle bullets still fighting and running for a good amount of time. Some of them were not even aware that they were wounded before someone else pointed that out to them. What I am trying to say is, do not expect miracles if your own a weapon that is at the moment the most popular, having great stopping power and cool reviews. It is about practicing, weapon mastery, and correct placement of bullets I said bullets for a reason. I have seen many things, but I did not see someone survive multiple shots in the correct place on the body. Have a weapon that is best for your case, and achieve perfection in using it. Do not expect that people will fall back if you shoot them with one bullet from some widely popular weapon and caliber (not talking about shotguns). So I am not gonna tell you what is the best weapon because what works for me maybe does not work for you or others. Having a weapon that is too rare, too good, or too bad does not make much sense to me. Do not find yourself in a situation when you lose your weapon and pick someone else and then find out that you do not have a clue about it, because your own weapon was special and rare. Just have what everyone else around you has, because of gun parts, ammo, and looking like everyone else. Your weapon is only a tool to survive. Be ready to lose it if you need to lose it, and pick some other weapon from the ground in the middle of a fight. I knew a guy who did some scary stuff with rusty shortened M-48. He was an old and poor-looking dude. He played that part well until he would take out this old gun from under his coat and rob and kill people. Simple strategy but it worked for him. Look around and think what works for you. The reality of combat is that there’s no way to predict how it’s gonna go. Until you’re in it, you can’t predict how you will act. All you can do is practice a lot in an environment that is as close as possible and get used to being uncomfortable. This is an excerpt from Selco’s book, The Dark Secrets of SHTF Survival. Get it in paperback here or in PDF here.

I strongly suggest that you visit his site and order his PDF. It doesn’t cost a lot, but the information and insight gleaned from it is priceless. Go HERE.

Do not fight a defensive war.

Do not fight a defensive war. You will lose.

I suggest going after the leadership, wherever they scurry to. Go after their homes, enclaves, minions and leadership. Do not only rely on firearms. Use unconventional methods to achieve your objectives.

You might want to check out this post…

Maybe it’s already happening now

Oklahoma Republican state Sen. Jonathan Nichols was found dead Friday, making him the second GOP state senator to be shot to death in the last two days. Police reportedly found Nichols, 53, dead by a gunshot wound in Norman, Oklahoma, Wednesday night. His death comes two days after police reportedly discovered former Arkansas Republican state Sen. Linda Collins-Smith dead from a gunshot wound and wrapped in some kind of blanket.

Pack extra weapons in grease

Here is a picture of a German lugar pistol that was packed in grease and unearthed in Russia 70 years later. Well packed weapons can avoid the gun collection round-ups.

Always hide your weapons

Always follow the rule of three. One cache hidden known only to you. One cache hidden known to your family, and one cache that is available for your immediate use.

You don’t need to have a hundred guns. You need only one that you are very lethal with. Do not get caught up in the idea that having a bunch of guns makes you invincible. It doesn’t. Having one, and being able to use it like an extension of your body is very, very important.

Now read this…

I have many posts on this subject. But one of the most important, that is part of this series is this one article. It ties current events with the upcoming shit storm in YOUR local area….

Some Links

The Right has exhaustively studied the long history of Leftist revolution and genocide, and knows very well that every genocide is preceded not only by the scapegoating of official state enemies, but also by the strict curtailment of their right to keep and bear arms in the dubious name of “public safety.”

If you want to go to the start of this series of posts, then please click HERE.

Do you want to see similar posts?

I hope that you found this post curious. Please take care. You can view other similar posts in my SHTF Index, here…

SHTF Articles

Articles & Links

You’ll not find any big banners or popups here talking about cookies and privacy notices. There are no ads on this site (aside from the hosting ads – a necessary evil). Functionally and fundamentally, I just don’t make money off of this blog. It is NOT monetized. Finally, I don’t track you because I just don’t care to.

You can start reading the articles by going HERE.

by going HERE. You can visit the Index Page HERE to explore by article subject.

You can also ask the author some questions. You can go HERE to find out how to go about this.

You can find out more about the author HERE.

If you have concerns or complaints, you can go HERE.

If you want to make a donation, you can go HERE.

Please kindly help me out in this effort. There is a lot of effort that goes into this disclosure. I could use all the financial support that anyone could provide. Thank you.