LIVE – Updated at 04:44

Vladimir Putin claimed Russian energy providers would resume gas supplies to Europe via the Nord Stream 2 pipeline if the EU asked them to.

“The ball is in the court of the EU. If they want, they can just open the tap,” said the Russian president.

Recent unexplained explosions damaged the Nord Stream 1 pipeline and one of the two links of the as yet unused Nord Stream 2 pipeline, causing a massive gas leak and taking them out of service.

Europe has strongly hinted that Moscow was guilty of causing the explosions, while Russia blamed the US.

Mr Putin has repeatedly taunted the West by raising the prospect of sending gas through Nord Stream 2. His latest offer is unlikely to be agreed to by western Europe.

Earlier, Ukraine dismissed claims by Russian security service FSB that Kyiv’s military spies were behind an attack on a Crimean bridge.

The FSB this morning arrested five Russians and three citizens of Ukraine and Armenia over the Kerch Bridge bombing, which damaged a key supply line for Moscow’s forces in southern Ukraine.

Key Points Putin: Russia can resume gas supplies via Nord Stream 2

Crimea bridge allegations ‘nonsense’, says Ukraine after arrests

Power out again at Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant

Biden doubts Putin will use nuclear weapons

Signs of torture on bodies found in recaptured Ukrainian town

Russian missiles target Mykolaiv 04:28 , Namita Singh 04:28 , Namita Singh Russia has unleashed a barrage of missiles on the Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv, a day after the United Nations General Assembly condemned Moscow’s annexation of four areas. “A five-storey residential building was hit, the two upper floors were completely destroyed, the rest – under rubble. Rescuers are working on the site,” Mayor Oleksandr Senkevich said in a social media post, adding the southern city was “massively shelled”. A shipbuilding centre and a port on the Southern Bug river off the Black Sea, Mykolaiv has suffered heavy Russian bombardments throughout the war.

Shelling hits Kyiv region, says local administration 04:24 , Namita Singh 04:24 , Namita Singh A settlement in the region of Ukraine’s capital Kyiv was hit by shelling early this morning, the region’s administration said on the Telegram messaging app. “Rescuers are already working at the site,” the administration said, without providing further details on where the shelling took place. Reuters was not able to immediately verify the report.

Why is Russia at war with Ukraine and what does Putin want? Thursday 13 October 2022 00:03 , Eleanor Sly Thursday 13 October 2022 00:03 , Eleanor Sly Russia’s “special military operation” has been raging for almost eight months as the conflict records devastating casualties as well as the displacement of millions of Ukrainians. President Vladimir Putin began the conflict by claiming Ukraine needed to be “demilitarised and de-Nazified.” Ukraine has defied odds throughout the conflict and defended against Russian attacks with the help of western military aid. In recent weeks president Volodymyr Zelensky’s forces launched a major counter-offensive to retrieve the besieged city of Kharkiv but as Ukraine’s resistance grows, Mr Putin’s threats of escalating the conflict grow also causing concern globally of whether nuclear warfare will be unleashed.

Yellen says Russian oil price cap in $60 range would allow Moscow some profit Wednesday 12 October 2022 23:32 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 23:32 , Eleanor Sly US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on Wednesday that a price cap on Russian oil exports in the $60-a-barrel range should be sufficient to reduce Moscow’s energy revenues while still allowing profitable production. Ms Yellen told an event at International Monetary Fund and World Bank meetings that Russia has been willing to produce and sell oil in the $60 range over the past five to seven years. “So certainly a price in that range would be sufficient to feel that Russia could profitably produce and sell oil,” Ms Yellen said, adding the United States and its Western allies were still discussing where to set the price for a capping mechanism. This will come into effect on 5 December.

What would happen if Belarus army join Russia in Ukraine war? Wednesday 12 October 2022 22:46 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 22:46 , Eleanor Sly Statements made this week by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko have reignited fears that his army could join Russian forces in Moscow’s war against Ukraine, but the authoritarian leader appears reluctant to lend his troops to the effort, despite perceived pressure from Moscow. Russia has already used Belarus, its longtime and dependent ally, as a staging ground to send troops and missiles into Ukraine. Analysts say if Belarus’ small and inexperienced military gets involved, the additional troops could help Moscow cut off some key transportation corridors, but likely wouldn’t significantly boost Russian President Vladimir Putin‘s capabilities on the battlefield. Read more here:

UN condemns Russia’s attempt to annex parts of Ukraine Wednesday 12 October 2022 21:53 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 21:53 , Eleanor Sly The United Nations General Assembly overwhelmingly condemned Russia’s “attempted illegal annexation” of four partially occupied regions in Ukraine. They called on all countries not to recognise the move and strengthened a diplomatic international isolation of Moscow since it began its invasion of its neighbour. Three-quarters of the 193-member General Assembly - 143 countries - voted in favour of a resolution that also reaffirmed the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders. “It’s amazing,” said Ukraine’s UN Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya told reporters after the vote. Only four countries joined Russia in voting against the resolution - Syria, Nicaragua, North Korea and Belarus. Thirty-five countries abstained from the vote. These included Russia’s strategic partner China, while the rest did not vote. “Today it is Russia invading Ukraine. But tomorrow it could be another nation whose territory is violated. It could be you. You could be next. What would you expect from this chamber?” Thomas-Greenfield told the General Assembly before the vote.

Woman arrested for spitting at officer during protest over Ukraine war outside Russian embassy in Washington Wednesday 12 October 2022 21:10 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 21:10 , Eleanor Sly Police arrested a woman on Monday for allegedly assaulting an officer during a protest outside of the Russian embassy in Washington, DC. Demonstrators gathered outside of the embassy to protest Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, where Vladimir Putin’s forces have increased brutal shelling attacks on civilians and major metro areas as Russia’s suffered surprise military setbacks in its campaign. One banner at the Monday event called out Russia for the “mass terror unleashed on innocent civilians”. During the protest, a woman was filmed having a heated encounter with uniformed Secret Service agents on hand, who protect foreign diplomatic missions in the capital. Read more here: © Provided by The Independent Woman arrested for spitting at officer during Ukraine war protest at Russian embassy

Joe Biden warns of ‘consequences’ for Opec as it sides with Russia even as Saudi Arabia attempts de-escalation Wednesday 12 October 2022 20:35 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 20:35 , Eleanor Sly Joe Biden has warned of “consequences” for Saudi Arabia after the Opec+ group announced a cut to oil production, in line with Moscow’s wishes. The 13-member Opec+ – a larger version of the organisation to include non-OPEC members that was formed in 2016 – said last week that it would cut its oil production by 2 million barrels per day in November, sending prices soaring ahead of winter. The decision came in spite of US objections and a meeting between Mr Biden and Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman Al Saud in July over the issue of global energy prices. Gino Spoccia reports: © Provided by The Independent Joe Biden warns of ‘consequences’ for Opec as it sides with Russia

Iodine pills in short supply after Finland updates guideline Wednesday 12 October 2022 20:10 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 20:10 , Eleanor Sly Many Finnish pharmacies ran out of iodine tablets Wednesday, a day after the Nordic country’s health ministry recommended that households buy a single dose in a case of a radiation emergency amid increasing fears of a nuclear event due to Russia’s war in Ukraine. “An accident at a nuclear power plant could release radioactive iodine into the environment, which could build up in the thyroid gland,” the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and Health said Tuesday. Pharmacies in many locations in Finland reported Wednesday they had run out of iodine tablets as citizens rushed to purchase the medicine. Drug wholesale also said their were stockpiles emptied out. Read more here: © Provided by The Independent Iodine pills in short supply after Finland updates guideline

Ukraine’s forgotten refugees: Lottery of rights across EU leaves thousands struggling for help Wednesday 12 October 2022 19:40 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 19:40 , Eleanor Sly The EU’s decision to offer unprecedented rights and freedoms to refugees fleeing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine less than a month after the war began was widely celebrated. An exceptional measure known as the temporary protection directive, designed to provide immediate protection for at least one year in the event of a mass influx of refugees, was invoked by the EU on 4 March 2022 – for the first time in the bloc’s history. It would mean that “all those fleeing the war” would be granted rights to schools, medical care and employment for one year, the European commission said. “All those fleeing Putin’s bombs are welcome in Europe,” President of the commission Ursula von der Leyen proclaimed. German interior minister Nancy Faeser called the temporary protection plan “a paradigm shift” for the EU. May Bullman and Maud Jullien report: © Provided by The Independent The forgotten Ukrainian refugees across the EU struggling for help

Biden global strategy tackles China, Russia, domestic needs Wednesday 12 October 2022 19:08 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 19:08 , Eleanor Sly The White House laid out a national security strategy Wednesday aimed at checking an ascendant China and a more assertive Russia even as it stressed that domestic investments are key to helping the US compete in the critical decade ahead. The administration’s first national security strategy, a document required by statute, stresses the need for a foreign policy that balances the interests of global allies with those of middle-class Americans. “We understand that if the United States is to succeed abroad, we must invest in our innovation and industrial strength, and build our resilience, at home,” the strategy states. © Provided by The Independent Biden global strategy tackles China, Russia, domestic needs

Over 50 countries promise weapons for Ukraine Wednesday 12 October 2022 18:21 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 18:21 , Eleanor Sly Over 50 Western countries have promised more weapons for Ukraine, in particular air defences following Russia’s most intense missile strikes since the war started in February. At the meeting of the Ukraine Defense Contact Group in Brussels, US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said that Russia’s latest attacks had laid bare its “malice and cruelty” since it began its invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine had shifted momentum since September with extraordinary gains, but would is in need of more assistance, he said. “These victories belong to Ukraine’s brave soldiers. But the Contact Group’s security assistance, training, and sustainment efforts have been vital,” Mr Austin explained.

Head of UN’s nuclear watchdog returns to Kyiv Wednesday 12 October 2022 17:53 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 17:53 , Eleanor Sly Rafael Grossi, the head of the UN’s nuclear watchdog, tweeted a photo of himself returning to Kyiv following a meeting with President Vladimir Putin in St Petersburg which took place on Tuesday.

Belarus edges closer to joining the war Wednesday 12 October 2022 17:34 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 17:34 , Eleanor Sly A flurry of military activity in Belarus this week has caught the attention of Ukraine and the west, who have taken it as a potential sign that President Alexander Lukashenko may commit his army to support of Russia’s war effort in Ukraine. Mr Lukashenko has ordered troops to deploy with Russian forces near to the Ukraine border, and his defence ministry says “combat readiness” drills are under way. On Tuesday, the interior ministry held exercises to eliminate “sabotage groups” near Yelsk, only 20 km (12 miles) from the border with Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has asked the Group of Seven (G7) countries to place an international observer mission near the border, while France warned Belarus it could face more Western sanctions if it deepened its involvement in Ukraine. Belarus allowed itself to be used as a launchpad for Russia’s Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine but has not joined the fighting directly. Analysts say Lukashenko would have no choice but to comply if Russian President Vladimir Putin demanded he enter the war, at a moment when Moscow is reeling from a series of defeats and facing unprecedented public criticism of its generals’ failings. Reuters

Russia arrests eight over Crimea bridge attack as Putin again blames Ukraine Wednesday 12 October 2022 17:03 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 17:03 , Eleanor Sly Russia has arrested eight people over the explosion that damaged the Crimea Bridge at the weekend. Those arrested include five Russians, three Ukrainians and an Armenian. Moscow has previously blamed Ukrainian secret services for the explosion. On Wednesday, Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) said the explosion was organised Ukrainian military intelligence and its director, Kyrylo Budanov. The explosive device was moved from Ukraine to Russia via Bulgaria, Georgia and Armenia, the FSB claimed. David Harding reports: © Provided by The Independent Russia arrests eight over Crimea bridge attack as Putin again blames Ukraine

Russian nuclear attack ‘would draw physical response’, says Nato official Wednesday 12 October 2022 16:30 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 16:30 , Liam James A Russian nuclear strike would change the course of the conflict and almost certainly trigger a “physical response” from Ukraine allies and potentially from Nato, a senior Nato official told Reuters. Any use of nuclear weapons by Moscow would have “unprecedented consequences” for Russia, the official warned. It would “almost certainly be drawing a physical response from many allies, and potentially from Nato itself”, he said. The official added that Moscow was using its nuclear threats mainly to deter Nato and other countries from directly entering its war on Ukraine. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier today said Western leaders were being “provocative” by using “nuclear rhetoric” regarding Russia. US president Joe Biden yesterday said he thought it unlikely that Vladimir Putin would order a nuclear attack.

Putin undecided on G20 visit, says Kremlin Wednesday 12 October 2022 15:57 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 15:57 , Liam James The Kremlin said it still remained to be seen if Vladimir Putin would attend November’s G20 summit on the resort island of Bali. “A large number of international forums are planned for November,” Mr Putin’s foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters. “If you are asking about the G20, then there is still a lot of time before the G20, as well as before other forums – we’ll wait and see,” Mr Ushakov said. Joe Biden, asked if he would meet Mr Putin at the G20, said he did not see a good reason for a meeting with the Kremlin chief. “It would depend on specifically what he wanted to talk about,” Mr Biden told CNN, adding that if Putin wanted to discuss the jailed American basketball star Brittney Griner then he would be open to talking.

Russia frittering away missile stocks it can’t replace – Nato Wednesday 12 October 2022 15:32 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 15:32 , Liam James Russia has depleted a significant proportion of its precision-guided missiles in its invasion of Ukraine and its industry cannot produce all kinds of ammunition and weapon systems due to Western sanctions, a senior Nato official said on Wednesday. The official said he did not know how long it would take for Russia to mobilise the 300,000 troops Moscow is aiming for, and suggested it could take a few months. An assessment by military observers the Institute for the Study of War concluded that Russia had diverted its dwindling missile stocks from strategically significant causes by taking aim at civilian areas of Ukraine’s cities rather than front line targets.

Turkish president expected to float peace ideas to Putin Wednesday 12 October 2022 15:08 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 15:08 , Liam James Vladimir Putin will meet Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan for talks in Kazakhstan tomorrow, a meeting at which the Turks are likely to raise ideas for peace in Ukraine, Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters. “Now many say that the Turks are ready to come up with other initiatives in the context of the settlement of the Ukrainian conflict,” Mr Ushakov said. “There are reports in the press that the Turkish side is putting forward specific considerations in this regard, I do not exclude that Erdogan will actively touch on this topic during the Astana contact. So a very interesting and, I hope, useful discussion awaits us.” Turkey has been facilitating talks between the two sides and outside bodies such as the UN throughout the war.

Dutch to send £15m air defence missiles to Ukraine Wednesday 12 October 2022 14:49 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 14:49 , Liam James The Netherlands will deliver €15m (£13.1m) worth of air defence missiles to Ukraine in reaction to Russian air raids on Ukraine earlier this week. “These attacks ... can only be met with unrelenting support for Ukraine and its people,” Defence minister Kasja Ollongren wrote in a letter to parliament. Ukraine has been pleading with Western nations for air defence support after Moscow launched a wave of missile strikes on cities across Ukraine. Nato members and allies are meeting today in Brussels to discuss additional support.

British businessman charged in US over Russian oligarch links Wednesday 12 October 2022 14:25 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 14:25 , Liam James A well-known British businessman has been arrested in the UK after being accused of helping a Russian oligarch to evade US sanctions. Graham Bonham-Carter was arrested on Tuesday and is accused of funding properties bought by oligarch Oleg Deripaska as well as expatriating his art. He has denied this. The US Department of Justice said the American government would seek Bonham-Carter’s extradition following the charge against him. Deripaska has previously been sanctioned by America. The charges allege that Deripaska instructed Bonham-Carter to set up a company called GBCM Limited to manage his properties, two of which are in New York and one in Washington. © Provided by The Independent British businessman charged in US with helping Russian oligarch evade sanctions

‘They can just open the tap’: Putin says Russia can resume gas supplies via Nord Stream 2 Wednesday 12 October 2022 14:04 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 14:04 , Liam James Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed that Moscow was ready to resume gas supplies to Europe via the Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Speaking at a Moscow energy forum, Putin said the gas could be supplied through one remaining part of the crucial energy pipeline. But he added that it was up to countries in Europe to decide if they wanted resume supplies. “Russia is ready to start such supplies. The ball is in the court of the EU. If they want, they can just open the tap,” said Putin. Recent unexplained explosions damaged the Nord Stream 1 pipeline and one of the two links of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, causing a massive gas leak and taking them out of service. © Provided by The Independent ‘They can just open the tap’: Putin says Russia can resume gas supplies to Europe

Watch: Family of three rescued from rubble in Zaporizhzhia Wednesday 12 October 2022 13:45 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 13:45 , Liam James Emergency services in Ukraine rescued a family trapped under the rubble of a destroyed building following a Russian missile attack on Zaporizhzhia. Footage shared on social media shows three people crawling to safety as officials clear a path through the debris around them. Rockets partially destroyed a house and outbuildings in a village close to Zaporizhzhia, according to the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. The account also confirmed that the family rescued did not require medical help.

Russian strikes only ‘strengthen allied resolve’ Wednesday 12 October 2022 13:27 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 13:27 , Liam James Russian missile strikes on Ukraine have laid bare the “malice and cruelty” of its war and further united the international community to support Ukraine‘s military efforts to defend itself, US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said on Wednesday. Mr Austin, speaking at the start of a Ukraine-focused meeting at Nato headquarters, praised Ukraine‘s military gains since September, calling them “extraordinary” and saying they had changed the dynamics of the war. “These victories belong to Ukraine‘s brave soldiers. But the Contact Group’s security assistance, training, and sustainment efforts have been vital,” Mr Austin said, addressing the gathering of defense leaders, including from Ukraine. Reports of Russian missile strikes have come out of Ukraine for a third day, with the governor of Donetsk accusing Moscow of killing seven in an attack on a crowded market in the town of Avdiivka.

Russia arrests eight over Crimea bridge attack as Putin again blames Ukraine Wednesday 12 October 2022 13:09 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 13:09 , Liam James Russia has arrested eight people over the explosion that damaged the Crimea Bridge at the weekend (David Harding writes). Those arrested include five Russians, three Ukrainians and an Armenian. Moscow has previously blamed Ukrainian secret services for the explosion. On Wednesday, Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) said the explosion was organised Ukrainian military intelligence and its director, Kyrylo Budanov. The explosive device was moved from Ukraine to Russia via Bulgaria, Georgia and Armenia, the FSB claimed. The FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, also said that it had prevented further Ukrainian attacks in both Moscow and the western Russian city of Bryansk. Later, Russian president Vladimir Putin repeated a claim that Ukraine’s special services were behind the attack. © Provided by The Independent Russia arrests eight over Crimea bridge attack as Putin again blames Ukraine

Signs of torture on bodies found in Ukraine town liberated from Russian forces Wednesday 12 October 2022 12:45 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 12:45 , Liam James Latest despatch from Kim Sengupta in Ukraine: Two separate mass burials sites, for civilians and soldiers, have been found on the edge of the cemetery in Lyman, recently liberated from Russian forces. Some of the 78 remains recovered so far have signs of having met a violent end. There are body parts, gunshot and shrapnel wounds, smashed ribs and skulls, severe deep cuts. Some of the dead are very young; one is a year-old baby girl buried with her parents. Among the corpses taken out and zipped into black body bags are Ukrainian soldiers in torn and frayed combat uniforms. Some have signs of having been handcuffed and blindfolded and have bullet holes in their heads, according to officials. Ukrainian authorities say they expect to find around 200 bodies at this burial site – one of several discovered in areas that had been occupied. The bodies of 534 civilians have been found in the area around Kharkiv alone. Serhii Bolnivov, the chief investigator of the region has claimed that ‘torture chambers’ have been found in “almost all large towns and cities where the Russian military units were based.” Standing beside the graves here in Lyman, Pavlo Kyrylenko, head of civil and military administration in the Donetsk region, says there are visible signs of torture. “Some of the soldiers have tapes on their hands and over their eyes, there are trauma injuries to many of the other bodies,” he says. “But all the cases will need to be investigated thoroughly before we can establish the cause of death. © Provided by The Independent Signs of torture on bodies in Ukraine town liberated from Russian forces

Russian strike on crowded market kills seven – Ukraine Wednesday 12 October 2022 12:28 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 12:28 , Liam James At least seven people were killed and eight injured in a Russian strike on a crowded market in the town of Avdiivka in Donetsk, the regional governor said. “The Russians struck the central market where many people were at that time,” Pavlo Kyrylenko said in a statement, adding that there was “no military logic” for such an attack. Pictures shared by the Ukrainian official showed dead bodies and a buidling in flames. The Independent could not verify their authenticity. © Provided by The Independent Kyrylenko shared this image among others of damaged stalls and dead bodies (Donetsk governor)

Polish oil leak likely accident, say officials Wednesday 12 October 2022 12:08 , Liam James Wednesday 12 October 2022 12:08 , Liam James An oil leak on a pipeline carrying oil from Russia to Poland was most likely an accident, Polish officials said. Polish pipe operator Pern said it detected a leak on the line last night. We reported this earlier [8.12]. The leak caused concern as it came weeks after attacks on the Nord Stream pipelines from Russia to Germany.

Why is Russia at war with Ukraine and what does Putin want? Wednesday 12 October 2022 23:35 , Eleanor Sly Wednesday 12 October 2022 23:35 , Eleanor Sly Russia’s “special military operation” has been raging for almost eight months as the conflict records devastating casualties as well as the displacement of millions of Ukrainians. President Vladimir Putin began the conflict by claiming Ukraine needed to be “demilitarised and de-Nazified.” Ukraine has defied odds throughout the conflict and defended against Russian attacks with the help of western military aid. In recent weeks president Volodymyr Zelensky’s forces launched a major counter-offensive to retrieve the besieged city of Kharkiv but as Ukraine’s resistance grows, Mr Putin’s threats of escalating the conflict grow also causing concern globally of whether nuclear warfare will be unleashed. Read more: © Provided by The Independent Why is Russia at war with Ukraine and what does Putin want?