Job Description For Shift Engineer| Full-Time [$20/hr]| Enjoy discounted rooms at Hyatt Hotels + Medical Benefits after 30 days!

Description



The Driskill Hotel, steeped in historic traditions, opened its doors in 1886 under the ownership of Cattle Baron, Jesse Driskill. Today, the hotel remains one of Austin's most notable landmarks. The Hotel Mechanic is an exciting opportunity to join the facility maintenance team at this legendary location!



The Shift Engineer will be a self-driven and motivated individual responsible for shift coverage and therefore must possess strong trouble-shooting skills in all areas of hotel maintenance including guest rooms, meeting space, front of house areas, back of house areas, kitchens, laundry, electrical, mechanical, life safety and HVAC/R systems.



The ideal candidate will possess the knowledge to:



Operate a Building Automation System

Replace electric motors, trouble shoot equipment controls

Acquire an EPA certification and be competent in performing HVAC/R repairs.

Career Growth and Advancement Opportunities. Hyatt Hotels & The Driskill believe strongly in promoting from within

Medical/Dental/Prescription/Vision Insurance after 30 days for full-time colleagues

Discounted Room Nights for you, your friends and family

Free Hyatt Room nights after 1 year of Service

Discounted Parking Options in Downtown Austin

Heavily Reduced Bus Passes through payroll deduction

Family Bonding Time and Adoption Assistance

Flexible Schedules

401(k) with company match

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

EPA 608 Refrigeration Certification is required

Open availability that includes evenings and weekends

Five (5) years of building maintenance experience preferred

Communication, Teamwork, and Time Management skills required.

Basic computer skills including email, Microsoft Word and Excel.

Ability to stoop, bend, kneel, and stand for long periods.

Ability to lift, pull, and push a moderate amount of weight.

The Shift Engineer will also perform preventative maintenance on major equipment and systems to ensure optimized performance and longevity. A minimum of five years building maintenance experience is preferred.Driskill Benefits: