The PlanetScope images were shared by the Planet company on Twitter.

The first picture was taken on October 7, the second on October 8, after the morning explosion and fire of a train carrying fuel tanks.

For sensitive topics,

write to us here.

SAFE

Russia's war against Ukraine

At 5:00 a.m. on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the start of a military operation against Ukraine in the Donbass at the request of the "DPR" and "LPR" groups. On February 21, during a televised address to Russians, Putin called the so-called "DPR" and "LPR" independent states within the regions. On February 22, the Federation Council ratified this decision.

All days of the war, Ukrainian cities were bombarded with rockets, aircraft flew over them. Russian troops are attacking, including from the territory of Belarus, using airfields, bases and roads. Representatives of Lukashenka's regime justify the war, his opponents consider the territory of Belarus to be occupied, many call for resistance to the Russian invaders.

On February 27, the International Legion of Territorial Defense was created in Ukraine, and foreign volunteers were invited to join it. Belarusians also entered there.

During the six months of war in Ukraine, 11 Belarusians are known to have died fighting on the Ukrainian side. These are Ilya Khrenov, Alyaksei Skoblia, Dmitri Apanasovich, Dmitri Rubashevskyi, Konstantin Dubaila, Pavel "Volat", Ivan Marchuk, Vasil Parfyankov, Vasil Grudovik, Vadim Shatrov and one of the fighters of Kalinovsky's regiment, whose name was not mentioned. In addition, it is known for sure about two prisoners from Kalinin - Ian Djurbeyka and Syarhei Dzhogtsev. There are no details about their fate.

It is also known about cases of death of natives of Belarus who fought in Ukraine on the side of Russia. During the six months of the war, there were nine such people.

On March 30, the UN approved the composition of an independent commission that will investigate Russian war crimes in Ukraine. It included people who worked in the analysis of the genocide in Rwanda and Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Contrary to Putin's statements about attacks only on military facilities, the Russians are bombing schools, kindergartens and residential areas of Ukrainian cities. The Russians are using banned weapons, including cluster bombs, against civilians.

On April 1, Lithuania became the first country in the European Union to completely abandon Russian gas. Latvia and Estonia followed her example. Germany has promised to completely stop using Russian oil by the end of 2022.

On April 2, after the liberation of the town of Bucha near Kyiv, photojournalists published dozens of photographs showing hundreds of dead people, victims of mass murders committed by Russian troops. Many are buried in spontaneous mass graves. The Russian occupation also brought great destruction to the people of Barodyan. It is also known about a number of rapes, including babies.

On May 9, the US President signed the Land Leasing Law. This law restores the program from the Second World War, which will speed up the supply of weapons to Ukraine and increase the amount of such assistance.

In June, two volunteers from Great Britain and one from Morocco were sentenced to death in the so-called "DNR". The same punishment threatens some other prisoners.

On July 29, as a result of an attack on the colony in Alenivtsi, at least 53 Ukrainian prisoners who previously defended the Azovstal plant and surrendered after completing their military mission were killed. The Russians accused Ukraine of the attack, the Ukrainian side declared the deliberate killing of prisoners by the Russian side.

On August 22, the Minister of Defense of Ukraine Valery Zaluzhny announced the official number of dead Ukrainian soldiers. According to him, it is about 9,000 soldiers.

During the six months of the war, Russia was able to occupy about 20% of the Ukrainian territory. In March, the area of ​​occupied land reached 30%. However, at the end of the month, Russian troops retreated from the north of Ukraine, as well as partially from Kharkiv. At the end of August, Crimea, Luhansk and Kherson regions were completely occupied. And also 50% of the territory of the Donetsk region, about 70% of the Zaporizhia region, approximately 30% of the Kharkiv region.

Kherson remains the only regional center of Ukraine captured by Russia after February 24. The city was occupied by Russian troops in the first days of the war without actually fighting. Kyiv suspects part of the former leadership of Kherson and the region of treason. The former head of the SBU of the Kharkiv region was also detained on such suspicion.

In September, Ukrainian troops launched a large-scale counteroffensive, as a result of which Russian forces began to rapidly flee from their positions in the Kharkiv region. Only on the day of September 11, Ukrainians liberated more than 20 settlements in Slobazhanshchyna.

In September, Ukraine withdrew its mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo under the AAN to send an aviation unit to defend against Russian aggression.

On September 21, Putin announced the mobilization in Russia. After this statement, thousands of Russians went to the border crossings and began to leave for Georgia, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Mongolia, Finland and other countries. In Russia itself, opponents of the war set fire to several military offices. Even people without military experience began to be conscripted into the army, despite promises that only experienced people would go to war. The mobilization of men into the Russian army also takes place in the occupied territories of Ukraine.

On October 2, Putin submitted a bill to the Russian parliament, which is an attempt to annex parts of four regions of Ukraine. Two new republics - "LPR" and "DNR" - and two regions - Zaporizhia and Kherson will be part of Russia. But thanks to the counteroffensive of the Ukrainians, the borders drawn in Moscow are no longer fully controlled by the occupying forces.

In October, Ukrainian troops successfully continued their counteroffensive, at the beginning of October they liberated Liman and Yampal, as well as significantly approached Svatov in the Luhansk region, and from there the way to Severodanetsk and Lysichansk opens.