PHILIPPINES, October 12 - Press Release October 12, 2022 Transcript: Phone patch interview of Senate President Juan Miguel "Migz" Zubiri QUESTION: ON THE BLACKLISTING OF THE PHILIPPINES SP ZUBIRI: I will try to put this on record. The word …

PHILIPPINES, October 13 - Press Release October 13, 2022 REVILLA FITNESS COACH HEADED TO OLYMPIA 2022 IN USA AFTER WINNING MUSCLE CONTEST PHILIPPINES Joven M. Sagabain of Bacoor City, Cavite is US-bound this December to represent the Philippines in the …

PHILIPPINES, October 13 - Press Release October 13, 2022 Jinggoy calls for Senate probe on hostage-taking incident in PNP Custodial Center FOLLOWING the Philippine National Police (PNP) officials' admission of lapses in safety measures, Senator Jinggoy …

Helping Career Professionals move with flow in their Journey in Life and Career METRO MANILA, NCR, PHILIPPINES, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Today, Mel Baguio announces the launching of her Fast Track Your Career Coaching Program with …

PHILIPPINES, October 13 - Press Release October 13, 2022 REVILLA TAKES OATH AS NEW MEMBER OF SENATE ELECTORAL TRIBUNAL IN ITS FIRST MEETING FOR THE 19TH CONGRESS Senator Ramon Bong Revilla Jr. took an oath as a new member of the Senate Electoral Tribunal ( …

Beauty & personal care products are the products that are used for hygiene as well as grooming PORTLAND, 5933 NE WIN SIVERS DRIVE, #205, OR 97220, UNITED STATE, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- According to a new report published by …

Lotte E&C announced on Oct. 7 that it has won an order for Section 7 of the Southern Urban Railway in the Philippines from the Philippine Ministry of Transport. The Southern Philippine Urban Railroad Project will construct a 56km-long railway that runs …

Philstar.com October 12, 2022 | 7:27pm MANILA, Philippines — President Ferdinand "Bongbong" Marcos Jr. has given the go signal to postpone the Barangay and Sangguniang Kabataan elections (BSKE), which was supposed to be held in December this year …

Gov. Mamintal Adiong Jr. and other leaders in Lanao del Sur draft their own version of the implementing rules and regulations of the Marawi Siege Compensation Act in a bid to hasten the creation of the nine-member compensation board tasked to evaluate, …

From September 24 to 27, the Socialist Equality Party in Australia held its Sixth National Congress. After extensive discussion, the following resolution and three others were unanimously adopted. The resolution “Build an international movement of the …

Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department (Parliament and Law) Wan Junaidi Tuanku Jaafar clarified that he meant there is no chance that Sabah could ever be handed over to the Philippines when he said the Sulu claim was not related to the question of …

Follow us on Telegram for the latest updates: https://t.me/mothershipsg With Malaysia’s 15th General Election likely scheduled for November, many Malaysians are wondering what role ex-prime minister Najib Tun Razak will play in GE15. To recap, …

KUALA LUMPUR: Sabah will never be ceded to or come under the control of the Philippines, and the Malaysian Government will always defend the integrity of its territorial sovereignty, Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department (Parliament and Law) Datuk …

CAPAS – Truck-mounted launchers blasted off rockets and U.S. stealth fighter jets streaked across the northern Philippine sky on Thursday in a combat drill that marked the latest display of American firepower in a region where Washington has tried to deter …

Brian Ramos Senator Catherine Cortez Masto listens to Dreamers at El Cevichazo in Las Vegas, to discuss their concerns with the 5th Circuit Courts decision to potentially upend the DACA program, which protects 11,500 Dreamers across Nevada. Wednesday, Oct. …

The fatal shooting of Filipino radio broadcaster Percival Mabasa in Manila earlier this month has heightened concerns that the media will remain under attack during the new administration of President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. in one of the most dangerous …

From a human rights standpoint, the 106-day-old administration of Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos Jr. seems to be on cruise control, coasting into the future pretty much on the policies put in place by Bongbong’s rough-hewn predecessor Rodrigo …

Silenced. Suppressed. These were the words used to describe the situation of girls and young women globally whenever they try to participate in politics. Plan International, a humanitarian organization aiming to advance children’s rights and equality for …

語言: English Photo Credit: Ray Swi-hymn/WikiCommons/CC BY-SA 2.0 TAIWAN IS SET for reopenings, with visa-free entry reinstated for the US, Europe, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia in mid-September. Other countries such as Japan, South Korea, and …

PHILIPPINES, October 13 - Press Release October 12, 2022 SENATOR JINGGOY EJERCITO ESTRADA ON THE SIGNING INTO LAW POSTPONING THE DECEMBER 2022 BARANGAY AND SK ELECTIONS I'm pleased to learn about it. Now, with all hands on deck, our national officials …

Gender parity in politics in the Philippines remains far from becoming a reality as only less than a third of the legislature are women, according to the latest report from the United Nations (UN) Women. In the report Data Snapshot: Women’s Leadership in …

Louise Maureen Simeon - The Philippine Star October 14, 2022 | 12:00am MANILA, Philippines — The Philippines has sought the help of its multilateral partners in addressing pressing issues particularly in developing countries hit the most by the pandemic. …

The New Zealand Herald reported on October 8 that unnamed representatives of the country’s “Ukrainian community” held a “high-level meeting” with the Labour Party-led government where they “raised concerns with government officials over the ongoing …

A monthly allowance of 5,000-6,000 pesos is too little to assist people living in poverty, observers say A beneficiary receives a monthly allowance under 4Ps, a government welfare scheme for poor people in the Philippines. (Photo supplied) Published: …

Sign up for The Brief, our daily newsletter that keeps readers up to speed on the most essential Texas news. Xin Huang is unhappy about the U.S. Supreme Court’s overturning of Roe v. Wade, and there are few things that could deter the Chinese American …

Online News Monitoring Made Simple

Established in 1995, EIN Newsdesk helps millions of users track breaking news across thousands of trusted websites. Users may set up custom email newsletters and RSS feeds or search among thousands of preset news sections. As a member, you may also submit your own news using the EIN Presswire distribution service. Membership is free and we do not sell or lease any information about you. Press release distribution, dedicated APIs, and custom services generate the revenue that allow us to offer you free basic access.