Applying for an Uzbekistan passport is a process you have to take seriously. You must first check if you have everything necessary (documentation) and go to the issuing authority to submit an application. You are also required to provide 2 passport photos. While you can go to a professional photo studio, getting the pictures online is far more convenient. And iVisa Photos can help with that.

Depending on where you want to go, chances are that you need a visa as well. We suggest that you access our website. With its help, you can learn if you are eligible for an electronic visa. And if you happen to be, iVisa.com can ensure a fast online application process that involves minimal effort.

Photo specs

Required photo size: 45 mm in height and 35 mm in width

The submitted photos must be in color

Head position: straight

Recency: taken no more than 6 months ago

Background: white

Smile: no

Eyes: must be clearly visible

Blurred pictures will be rejected

Glasses: acceptable only if they do not obscure the eyes and there is no glare in the photo

Headwear: not allowed. Exceptions are made for religious/cultural purposes

Resolution (pixels): at least 600 dpi

Dress code: the colors of your clothes must be in contrast with the background. Do not wear white tops

Beard: permitted if it represents your everyday appearance

Number of photos necessary: 2

Uzbekistan Passport Photo Size Requirements Guide

Uzbekistan Passport Photos and Visa Photo Requirements – Rules, Guidelines, and Specifications

For iVisa Photos to be able to process your passport photo so that it is government compliant, you have to take a valid picture. Below, you are going to find some guidelines that you have to follow when you take your photo at home.

When you are getting ready to take your passport photo or visa photo, make sure that you position yourself against a white wall. It is okay to use a white sheet if you do not have a white wall. Just hang it on a wall, and you are set. Keep in mind that there should be no shadows and patterns on the background, either.

We all know that light can play tricks on anything, which is why you need adequate lighting when you take your passport photo or visa photo. The source should be in front of you to avoid shadows on your face. Plus, the intensity has to be balanced.

In your passport photo or visa photo, both sides of your face must appear equally. That is why you must keep your head straight and face forward. Do not submit a portrait-style photo as you will be asked to provide another one.

You are not permitted to smile in your passport photo or visa photo. In fact, the only facial expression you are allowed to display is neutral.

In any passport photo or visa photo, the eyes must be perfectly visible. Make sure that nothing obscures them. If you are wearing prescription glasses, it is recommended to take them off to avoid flash reflection. Also, it goes without saying that wearing glasses with tinted lenses or sunglasses in your picture is strictly forbidden.

Generally, it is not allowed to appear in your passport photo or visa photo with your head covered. The only exception is for religious purposes. But even then, you must make sure that the headwear does not cast shadows on your face. Also, your face has to be visible from the bottom of your chin to the top of your forehead.

You are not obligated to shave your beard before taking your picture as long as it represents a part of your everyday appearance.

Rules and Requirements for Babies, Infants, and Newborn Passport and Visa Photos

Children must hold their own travel documents. So, if you want to go on vacation abroad together, you have to get passports and visas for them as well. Once again, iVisa Photos can help you with the photos. Here are some tips that should help you in the process of photographing your children.

You must take the photo of your child when he/she is awake.

Your child has to be alone in the passport photo or visa photo. In case you want to hold your baby during the photo shoot, you have to conceal every single part of you. Even your hands.

The child cannot appear in the picture with headwear, pacifier, or any other object.

If you want to put your child in a car seat when you take the photo, remember that the backrest of the chair has to be covered with a white sheet to ensure a white background.

When photographing your child from above in the lying down position, you have to put a white layer underneath. Again, the background has to be white.

Price and Cost

If you go to a professional photo studio to have your passport photo or visa photo taken, you are going to spend quite a bit. Not to mention that you will lose some time, as well. But if you decide to get your pictures online, you will spend less. An Uzbekistan passport requires 2 photos, and with iVisa Photos, you will only pay $5.99 for them. That is approximately 60,708 UZS.

How to get Uzbekistan Passport Photos or Uzbekistan Visa Photos Online?

The process of getting your passport photos or visa photos online with iVisa Photos is straightforward. First, you have to make sure that you have a good camera with a decent resolution. You can use the one from your phone or tablet. Then, you have to find the right setting in which to take your picture.

Please remember that when you take your photo, you have to consider all the rules and guidelines above. As soon as you have a picture that you love, you have to submit it to iVisa Photos. We have to process it so that it complies with all the government regulations. Then, you will get two options:

Give us your address, and we will send the photos to you as soon as possible.

Download the photo to print it yourself.

If you need more information, do not hesitate to contact iVisa Photos’ customer support service.

References