Presentation Academy students, staff and faculty formed a circle around their school building and held signs that include the names of people or groups of people who have been affected by violence. Monday, Oct. 4, 2021

An annual event to inspire and encourage a new generation of female leaders within our community has announced the recipients of the 2022 Tower Awards for Women Leaders.

Presented annually by Presentation Academy, a diverse Catholic college-preparatory high school for young women located in downtown Louisville, the Tower Awards highlight the importance of doing good work in our community and provide outstanding role models for future female leaders.

"An important part of our mission here at Presentation is to prepare our students to be leaders in a global society," said Presentation Academy President Laura Dills. "This annual event is a way for us to not only honor women leaders in our community but to also identify female role models for our students and to raise tuition assistance funding so that girls from all backgrounds have an opportunity to receive a Catholic education."

The annual event now in its 27th year brings together local female leaders in their fields and highlights their contributions to Presentation Academy students and the Kentuckiana community in six categories: Science and Healthcare, Government Justice and Law, Education, Arts and Communications, Services and Advocacy, Business Technology and Trade.

You may likeHow a $15M gift to Norton may very well transform diabetes care in Kentucky

This year's recipients include Dr. Ruth M. Carrico, executive director of the Norton Infectious Diseases Institute, Rachael Denhollander, speaker, author, victim advocate and attorney, Keri Kinslow Meador, a science teacher at Central High School, Rachel Platt, director of Community Engagement at the Frazier History Museum, Taylor Ryan, executive director and Founder of Change Today, Change Tomorrow, and Nachand Hyde Trabue, founder and CEO of Manhattan on Broadway and MELANnaire Marketplace.

Each of these community role models will speak at the Tower Awards celebration on Thursday, Oct. 20 from 6-9 p.m. at the Kentucky International Convention Center, 221 S Fourth St.

Story continues

Also to be honored at the awards celebration include Lifetime Achievement recipient Cecilia "Lucille" (Wuerth) Tangel, a Lieutenant Colonel (Retired), U.S. Army Nurse, and the founder of Imagine We Rwanda, Dominique Alonga, who will receive the "Mother Catherin Spalding Visionary Award."

You may like'How is this acceptable?' Flaws in Louisville's mental health system draw federal scrutiny

Since its inception in 1995, the Tower Awards has recognized more than 100 deserving women in our community and raised more than $4.5 million for financial aid. All proceeds from the Tower Awards, and its corresponding online auction, Tower Treasures, benefit Presentation's tuition assistance program. Tower Treasures includes items for you to bid on such as airline tickets, vacation getaways, dining and shopping experiences, and more.

Individual tickets are $150 and include dinner and two drink tickets. The Young Professional ticket is $75 and includes dinner, one drink ticket, and pre-event networking with Tower Award recipients.

For more information, visit presentationacademy.org or contact Kristin Beck at 502-583-5935, Ext. 108 or kbeck@presentationacademy.org.

Reach Features Reporter Kirby Adams at kadams@courier-journal.com.

This article originally appeared on Louisville Courier Journal: Attend Presentation Acadmey's annual Tower Awards for Women Leaders