Quiz Answer Key and Fun Facts

1. This Whammy sang with a group and on his own. Mark David Chapman was his most deadliest fan when he shot this Whammy at the Whammy's own home on December 8, 1980. Who was this well-known Whammy?



Answer: John Lennon



John Lennon was born October 9, 1940 in Liverpool, England. He is best known as being a member of the Beatles as well as for his solo career. Once attacked for a comment he made saying "The Beatles are more popular that Jesus" he later explained that he was not saying he or the other Beatles are better than Jesus, but rather he was saying people were showing up to their concerts and not going to church.

2. This Whammy was killed on the Ides of March in 44 BC. Who was he?



Answer: Julius Caesar



The Ides of March is March 15th. Sixty men participated in the assassination of Caesar according to Eutropius, who was a secretary in that time period. Caesar was stabbed 23 times. One of the most famous men involved in his assassination was his friend Brutus.

3. This Whammy knew guns well as being a known marksman. However, one day while playing cards he held "the dead man's hand" when shot in the back of the head by Jack McCall. Who was this Whammy?



Wild Bill Hickok



Wild Bill Hickok was born on May 27, 1837 and was killed on August 2, 1876. The "dead man's hand" is a pair of aces and a pair of eights. It is not known for sure if this legend is true. However, the legend has stuck and so has the term "dead man's hand" for this hand in cards. Answer:Wild Bill Hickok was born on May 27, 1837 and was killed on August 2, 1876. The "dead man's hand" is a pair of aces and a pair of eights. It is not known for sure if this legend is true. However, the legend has stuck and so has the term "dead man's hand" for this hand in cards.

4. After hearing Emma Goldman, an anarchist leader, speak, Leon Czolgosz shot and killed this Whammy deciding that the Whammy had too much power. Who was this Whammy?



Answer: William McKinley



Czolgosz received the death penalty for killing McKinley in October 1901 by the electric chair. He was only 28 years old. He had assassinated the president on September 6, 1901 with .32 caliber gun. The president had been greeting people and reached out to shake Czolgosz' hand so Czolgosz was able to shoot him at point blank range. McKinley was 58 years old when he was assassinated.

5. This Whammy just wanted to save the gorillas from poachers. On December 26, 1985 she was murdered in Rwanda. Who is this Whammy?



Answer: Dian Fossey



Dian Fossey was killed by a machete in 1985, her skull was split open. She is buried with the gorillas that she tried to save. In fact, she is buried by her best known gorilla, Digit.

6. This Whammy was stabbed to death on June 12, 1994. Many still believe her ex-husband had something to do with it. Who was this Whammy?



Answer: Nicole Simpson



Nicole Simpson was born on May 19, 1959 in Germany. She and her good friend Ron Goldman were murdered by stabbing on June 12, 1994. Nicole was 34 years old and left behind two children: Sydney and Justin. OJ was found not guilty in the trial for murder, but later in a civil case he was found liable for the murders.

7. Only 37 years old, this Whammy met his fate on February 12, 1976 coming home from rehearsal. The man who was imprisoned for this murder was Lionel Ray Williams, but who was this Whammy?



Answer: Sal Mineo



Sal Mineo was born on January 10, 1939 in New York City. He was only stabbed once (earlier police reports said multiple stabs but they later found this was incorrect) but the stab went right into his heart causing immediate massive bleeding. Williams was paroled in the early 1990s but soon arrested again for more criminal activities.

8. This Whammy became famous because of the "New York Times" report about her death. She yelled and screamed for help while 38 people watched and no one called the police. She was stabbed to death by Winston Moseley. Who was this Whammy?



Kitty Genovese



Kitty Genovese was born Catherine Susan Genovese on July 7, 1935 in Brooklyn, NY. Her murder was of great interest in psychology and has become known as Genovese Syndrome or the "bystander effect". The people that watched never did anything, not because they all did not care: every single one of them believed since so many people saw what was going on, that someone else had already called, so no one made the call.



It was found in psychiatric evaluations that her murderer was a necrophile. Moseley was sentenced to death for the murder (he also confessed to killing two other people) but the sentence was commuted due to insanity. On March 11, 2008 Moseley was denied parole for the 13th time. Answer:Kitty Genovese was born Catherine Susan Genovese on July 7, 1935 in Brooklyn, NY. Her murder was of great interest in psychology and has become known as Genovese Syndrome or the "bystander effect". The people that watched never did anything, not because they all did not care: every single one of them believed since so many people saw what was going on, that someone else had already called, so no one made the call.It was found in psychiatric evaluations that her murderer was a necrophile. Moseley was sentenced to death for the murder (he also confessed to killing two other people) but the sentence was commuted due to insanity. On March 11, 2008 Moseley was denied parole for the 13th time.

9. This Whammy did not have the best bodyguards. Satwant Singh and Beant Singh, who were two of her bodyguards, assassinated this Whammy on October 31, 1984 in New Delhi, India. Who was this Whammy?



Answer: Indira Gandhi



Indira Gandhi was born on November 19, 1917 in India. She was assassinated on October 31, 1984 at the age of 66. Her assassins both shot her while she was waiting to be interviewed by Peter Ustinov. She died on the way to the hospital but was not declared dead until many hours later. It was estimated that 31 bullets were found in her body.

10. During the reign of Nero this Whammy known from the New Testament books he wrote in the Bible was believed to been killed by beheading. Who was this Whammy?



Answer: The Apostle Paul



Paul was born in Tarsus and died in Rome. Paul was in prison for two years. Later he was put on house arrest for a few years. The exact year of his death isn't known but it is known that it occurred during the reign of Nero. It is believed he was beheaded in Tre Fontane Abbey.

Source: Author Ilona_Ritter This quiz was reviewed by FunTrivia editor bloomsby before going online.Any errors found in FunTrivia content are routinely corrected through our feedback system.