There has been a concerning escalation in the Russia-Ukraine war.

Russia is bombing Kyiv in retaliation for the explosion on the Crimea bridge.

Markets seem to be more focused on central bank policy, but the escalation is a concern, especially for the Euro and European stocks.

Markets are off to a shaky start on Monday, following on from the heavy selling on Friday and the NFP beat. Asia was down heavily and European stock markets gapped lower by around –1%, although they are trying to recover and Dax is almost back to Friday’s closing level. Currencies are again being dominated by a strong US dollar and EURUSD and GBPUSD were both down –0.5% early in the session but are also climbing back from the session lows.

Weekend news has seen a worrying escalation in the Ukraine-Russia conflict and this has worsened on Monday morning as Russia is firing missiles at Kyiv. So far, markets seem to have overlooked these developments as they would be expected to hurt Europe the most and Dax is actually one of the strongest markets while the Euro is higher against the Australian Dollar and New Zealand Dollar. Nevertheless, it underscores the risks in Europe at the moment and is a major reason to avoid the Euro in favour of the USD and Canadian Dollar.

Escalation in Ukraine

Ukraine dealt Russia and President Putin a surprise blow over the weekend as it blew up a key bridge to the Russian annexed Crimea. The explosion apparently came from a lorry on the road bridge and also damaged the railway section of the bridge. Three people died and the strike is a blow to the supply of Russian supplies into the south of Ukraine.

It is not yet clear who carried out the attack, but Russia was quick to denounce it as an act of terror.

“There is no doubt, this is an act of terrorism aimed at destroying Russia's critical civilian infrastructure," Putin said. "Its authors, perpetrators and beneficiaries are the security services of Ukraine."

Retaliation was expected and this was quickly delivered with an attack on housing in the city of Zaporizhia followed by at least four missile explosions in the Ukranian capital of Kyiv on Monday morning. This could spell a concerning escalation in the war, particularly as General Surovikin was just appointed as the overall commander in Russia’s war. Surovikin is notorious for his involvement in Syria where he was responsible for a large number of civilian deaths and ruthless bombing of Aleppo. If he adopts the same approach in Ukraine, the war could be taking an even more dangerous path.

Market Impact

The majority of the market’s focus in recent sessions has been on US data such as Friday’s NFP and whether or not the Fed will pause or pivot. However, oil prices have been climbing steadily higher, partly due to OPEC’s cuts, and partly due to the escalation in Ukraine. Higher energy prices are particularly bad news for Europe which is bracing for winter and a potential energy shortage. With this as a backdrop, the Euro will struggle to build any kind of rally and EURUSD looks set to stay below parity.

There is also a slowly growing fear that the Ukraine situation could lead to an escalated nuclear threat. This hasn’t been helped by unlinked events in North Korea which has been simulating a strike on South Korea with nuclear weapons.

Again, the effect of the nuclear threat is hard to gauge on markets which are primarily still driven by inflation and central bank tightening. Even so, it is another reason for continuation in the bear market in stocks, USD strength, and Euro weakness.