COVID

COVID was the horse that Joe Biden rode into the White House which he vowed to contain and nip in the bud through conjuring The Science in a “full-scale wartime effort.” The official death toll now stands at 1,088,471. It was 419,453 on the day that he was sworn into office. Most people who have died from COVID have died since Joe Biden has been president and since his vaccination campaign.

COVID never went away. It simply mutated into weaker and weaker strains which spread more virulently while creating more immunity in the population. It ran its natural course like all pandemics and burned itself out after two years. The Omicron strain was effectively the end of COVID. The media quit caring about COVID in early 2022 when the “vaxxed and done” became too numerous and it quietly dropped out of the news cycle when supporting the war in Ukraine replaced COVID as The Current Thing.

Joe Biden himself was infected with COVID. Lord Fauci was infected with COVID. Biden spent $1.9 trillion dollars on his COVID relief package. It sparked a tidal wave of inflation while doing nothing to stop COVID. He signed a bunch of executive orders which did nothing to stop COVID. Joe Biden’s vaccine mandate did nothing to stop COVID. The Supreme Court tossed it out.

In retrospect, the lockdowns were ineffective at stopping COVID. Masking and social distancing didn’t stop COVID. The vaccines didn’t stop COVID as people who are on their fourth booster shot are still getting infected. Trillions of dollars in spending didn’t stop COVID. COVID stopped itself by mutating into weaker strains which we eventually accepted and decided to live with. We moved on.

Monkeypox

The same media which pulled its hair out about COVID and demanded vaccine mandates and lockdowns to deal with it has buried the fact that Monkeypox has exploded on Joe Biden’s watch. There were no calls to shut down gay orgies in the name of public health and The Science. On the contrary, Monkeypox was allowed to run its natural course and has largely been ignored and downplayed by the media. It would have stigmatized HIV-infected promiscuous homosexuals to have made it a big issue. It also would have made Joe Biden look bad to focus on Monkeypox because nothing was being done about it.

Joe Biden has had to deal with two pandemics in two years. He wasn’t able to control or squash either of them. Trump was portrayed as hopelessly incompetent and unable to deal with COVID. The “adults in the room” weren’t able to deal with it either with all of their various vaccines.

Gas Prices

Thanks to Joe Biden’s foreign policy, which has aggravated tensions with Saudi Arabia and led us into a war with Russia, we achieved the highest gas prices in American history this summer. Gas prices have shot back up because MBS has decided that he wants to get rid of Biden. Democrats are furious about OPEC+ cutting production ahead of the midterms. Joe Biden is now threatening “consequences” for Saudi Arabia. As bad as gas prices are now, the U.S.-Saudi Arabia relationship is rapidly deteriorating under Joe Biden which all but guarantees a more hostile relationship with OPEC and even higher gas prices in the future. Trump, of course, was heavily criticized for getting along with Putin and MBS and pulling out of the Paris climate agreement and for low energy prices which fueled climate change.

Inflation

Inflation is the biggest problem facing the country.

Why do we have the highest inflation rate in 40 years though? It mainly due to the COVID relief bill which passed Congress early last year which spent a bunch of money to create this problem while really doing nothing to stop COVID. Inflation has been exacerbated by the war in Ukraine which is a byproduct of Joe Biden’s foreign policy of supporting NATO expansion at all costs.

The Border

In his first two years in office, Joe Biden has already shattered all previous records of illegal immigration and that is with the federal courts keeping intact several Trump-era immigration policies like Title 42 and the Remain in Mexico policy which have recently been dismantled.

War With Russia

In just two years in office, Joe Biden has managed to push us to the brink of a nuclear war with Russia over Donbas and has spent well over $60 billion dollars on the war in Ukraine.

Police State

Nearly everyone who worked in Trump’s inner circle has been arrested and imprisoned or prosecuted under Joe Biden. Merrick Garland is poised to indict Donald Trump. The DOSJ now spends its time investigating police departments and trying to throw pro-life activists in prison. We have long since transitioned to a Third World country under Joe Biden where the party in power tries to criminalize its opposition.

“Trans”

We’re having a national conversation about “gender-affirming care” for minors. Gay marriage was legalized by the Supreme Court seven years ago and we have since moved on to sex change operations and gender bending hormones for children who are being indoctrinated in queer theory in K-12 public schools on the West Coast. The American Medical Association recently demanded that Merrick Garland start arresting and prosecuting activists who are opposed to this.

Ketanji Brown Jackson’s Progressive Originalism

Ketanji Brown Jackson recently made her debut on the Supreme Court. She argued that the Constitution requires racial discrimination against Whites. Joe Biden has pushed “racial equity” in every department of the federal government.

I could go on and on, but it isn’t necessary. Joe has gotten a lot accomplished in the last two years. No one anticipated that we would be on the brink of a nuclear war with Russia by the midterms.