The "Global Hydrogen Fuelling Station Market Report Size, Trends & Growth Opportunity, By Product Type, By End User, By Region And Forecast to 2027." report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering. Global Hydrogen Fueling …

LONDON, Oct. 14, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- Global Plant Based Beverages Market Outlook (2022-2028) The Global Plant Based Beverages Market is poised to reach a valuation of USD 67.62 billion by 2028 from USD 25.06 billion in 2021, registering a CAGR of …

DUBLIN, Oct. 14, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- The "Oral Biologics & Biosimilars Global Market Report 2022" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering. The global oral biologics & biosimilars market is expected to grow …

New York, Oct. 14, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- The Insight Partners published latest research study on "UV Disinfection Equipment Market Size, Share, Revenue and Forecast to 2028 – COVID-19 Impact and Global Analysis – by Component (UV Lamps, Reactor …

SANTA CRUZ, CALIFORNIA, USA, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Solutionists! A newly coined word to define individuals who ideate and execute solutions for day-to-day challenges. Solving real-world business problems was the theme of the …

Ottawa, Oct. 14, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Precedence Research, Recently Published Report on “Molecular Diagnostics Market (By Product; By Test Location; By Technology; By Application; By End User) - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, …

Free livestream featuring Lt. Col. (retired) Alexander Vindman on his book, Here, Right Matters, and what's ahead for the Ukraine war. HOUSTON, TEXAS, UNITED STATES, October 14, 2022 /⁨EINPresswire.com⁩/ -- Lt. Col. (retired) Alexander Vindman …

New York, US, Oct. 14, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Semiconductor in Military and Aerospace Market Overview: According to a Comprehensive Research Report by Market Research Future (MRFR), "Semiconductor in Military and Aerospace Market Information By …

Terra’s Head of General Affairs, Yoo Mo, was arrested in South Korea on Thursday as part of a broader investigation into the cabal behind the LUNA and UST crash. Mo stands accused of violating the Capital Markets Act, fraud, breach of duty, and inflating …

AdvertisementBefore transforming into the stable democracy it is today, South Korea was an authoritarian state. However, the authoritarian state distinguished itself from others of the same type in its effective mixed governance, which facilitated both …

YOURSAY | ‘The dire straits this country is in now is because of Umno.’ Umno leader: Forget Mahathir, Anwar and Muhyiddin, choose BN Apanama is Back: Umno supreme council member Shamsul Anuar Nasarah said, "As mentioned by BN chairperson (Ahmad Zahid …

David Miller is a former mayor of Toronto now serving as managing director of the C40 Centre for City Climate Policy and Economy. In this feature interview following a community climate event in Ottawa, Canada, he talks about cities’ responsibility to take …

On Wednesday October 12 (local time), the Philadelphia Art Commission voted to conditionally approve the construction of the Philadelphia Peace Plaza, which includes erection of a "Statue of Peace" described as a sculpture commemorating the …

It is now more than 20 years since South Korea stunned football by reaching the semi-finals of the 2002 World Cup on home soil. A squad that few - including their own fans - gave a chance of even getting out of their group put the likes of Italy and Spain …

The movement to install so-called "comfort women statues" has accelerated in several regions around the world. A statue was installed at the University of Kassel in Hesse, Germany, and at the Chungnam National University in South Korea in July …

SEOUL, Oct. 14 (Yonhap) -- The ruling People Power Party (PPP) on Friday submitted a motion calling for disciplinary action against opposition leader Lee Jae-myung for holding stocks of arms companies while serving as a member of the parliamentary defense …

AKIPRESS.COM - Interpol detained a South Korean citizen who was on the international wanted list, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kyrgyzstan reported on October 10. 54-year-old D.G. is suspected of major fraud. According to the South Korean Interpol, …

In May 2022, President Joe Biden launched the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity with 13 countries in the region. According to the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the framework will advance resilience, sustainability, …

In the Chinese Communist Party's 20th National Congress, which begins in Beijing on Sunday, President Xi Jinping is expected to be confirmed as president-for-life. If that actually happens, China's ascent to genuine superpower status will be at …

President Xi Jinping, arguably, is the most powerful man on Earth, and most desperate. In 2013, the Supreme People’s Court, the apex judicial body in China, issued a decree. Anyone on the internet who spread a rumour that was shared over five hundred times …

Russia’s military remains reliant on foreign microchips for everything from tactical radios to drones and precision long-range munitions. This is just one of several damning conclusions made by a recent report from Statewatch NGO, the Economic Security …

A group of people eats at a restaurant in Seoul on July 9, 2021. (Yonhap) SEOUL, Oct. 14 (Korea Bizwire) — In an increasing number of cases, people are sneaking away from restaurants after dining, without paying for their food. Last June, six tourists …

Introduction Since its inception, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has been fixated on solidifying its legitimacy at home and abroad. Initially, the CCP manipulated the message to a global audience through ideologically-committed sympathisers. Since Xi …

A South Korean businessman was yesterday tried by the Phnom Penh Municipal Court for allegedly cheating a countryman out of $65,000 by claiming to be able to secure the release of the victim’s brother who was arrested over online scams. Judge Key Manera …

Transparency International Bangladesh (TIB) has expressed grave concern that most leading trade and investment partner countries of Bangladesh have systematically failed to take action against bribery in international trade. The watchdog has called upon …

Haiti - Justice : Haiti selected as evaluating country of corruption in South Korea 13/10/2022 10:12:14 Haiti was selected this year as an evaluating country for the Republic of Korea's implementation of the United Nations Convention against …

SEOUL, Oct. 14 (Yonhap) -- Prosecutors on Friday indicted former Vice Gyeonggi Province Gov. Lee Hwa-young on charges of taking bribes from an underwear company in return for business favors related to inter-Korean economic projects. Lee, a confidant of …

Online News Monitoring Made Simple

Established in 1995, EIN Newsdesk helps millions of users track breaking news across thousands of trusted websites. Users may set up custom email newsletters and RSS feeds or search among thousands of preset news sections. As a member, you may also submit your own news using the EIN Presswire distribution service. Membership is free and we do not sell or lease any information about you. Press release distribution, dedicated APIs, and custom services generate the revenue that allow us to offer you free basic access.