Fortnitemares 2022 is soon upon us for another season of spooky fun. Fortnite is famous for its events and crossovers, making Halloween the perfect time of year for some scary shenanigans. The yearly event, known as Fortnitemares, returns this October with more themed items and in-game activities. Here is everything we know so far about Fortnite Fortnitemares 2022.

Learn more about this handy new looting feature in Fortnite Holo-Chests explained.

Fortnitemares 2022: Start Date

Click to enlarge

The only thing that Epic has confirmed is that Fortnitemares is returning this Halloween, and it will begin on October 18th. As such, there will be at least two weeks of the event leading up to the big day itself on the 31st.

The event will start soon, but we do not yet know how long it will be around. Previous Fortnitemare events have gone on into the first week of November, so it seems safe to say that the event will be with us through the rest of October.

This is one for you Marvel fans, here is how to get the Fortnite Iron Man Zero outfit.

Fortnitemares 2022: New Outfits

Click to enlarge

As we all know, you cannot have a Fortnite event of any kind without adding some new skins. There will undoubtedly be plenty of themed skins for the occasion, with many skins from previous Halloween seasons returning. Be sure to jump on the game in the weeks leading up to Halloween to check those out.

What we do know for sure, is that there are at least two new outfits coming during the event. These were designed by fans for the Concept Royale competition. The two winning concepts will be turned into in-game outfits and become available during the upcoming Fortnitemares event. The two new outfits are called Glare and Sorrow.

Sorrow is a spooky lady with a mix of zombie, demon and ghoulish features. Glare has a giant hand for a head, with only one eye in the palm. The two new skins are suitably spooky for this time of year, and the perfect look for monster fans.

If you want a hand with the Fortnite Bytes quests, check out our guide.

Fortnitemares 2022: Trailer

Click to enlarge

Unfortunately, there is no trailer just yet for Fortnitemares 2022. There have been trailers for Fortnitemares events in the past, so we anticipate there will be one for this event too. When it will appear is anyone's guess, but previous trailers have been released shortly before the launch of the event, so we might need to wait a bit.

When a trailer does come about, we will be back to add it here. In the meantime, we will all simply have to wait and see.

That is everything we know so far about the Fortnite Fortnitemares 2022 event. For more on the game, check out our guide on where to find the driftwood in Fortnite Chapter 3 Season 4.