Image via Handout

A Home Office immigration official, who made jokes about raping 15-year-olds, tasering kids and the disabled, and sent racist messages in a group WhatsApp chat, has been suspended following a BBC investigation.

It was reported by BBC show Newsnight that Rob Lewis, an ex-policeman, had created a group chat dubbed Bottle and Stoppers with other officers William Neville, Jonathon Cobban and former Pc, Joel Borders. It is believed that members of the group shared “vile and deplorable” messages and images about the government’s policy to deport migrants to Rwanda for processing, slurs about Black MPs, and comments about the Duke and Duchess of Sussex.

The programme said it was made aware of the messages by former police officer Dave Eden, who told Newsnight: “There are references to Black politicians, which are extremely unpleasant—the entire undertone is one of racism and misogyny. This group tells me that the culture of the Metropolitan Police hasn’t changed. And, in fairness, it’s not just this group—it’s other groups. It’s what I’m hearing out of the mouths of ex-colleagues, and what I’m witnessing all the time.”

The Home Office said in a statement that it had suspended a member of staff following allegations of gross misconduct: “We expect the highest standards of our staff and have a zero tolerance approach to anyone displaying racist, homophobic, misogynist or discriminatory behaviour,” the statement said. “Where we are made aware of such behaviour we will not hesitate to take decisive action.”

Describing the messages sent as “abhorrent”, the Met’s Commander, Jon Savell—who is in charge of the force’s professional standards—said: “Their behaviour erodes the confidence that the public has in the police, a confidence that the vast majority of us in the Met works tirelessly day-in, day-out to maintain and improve. Racism, misogyny, homophobia or any other discriminatory behaviour has no place in the Met.

“Where such behaviour is identified it will be dealt with robustly, but we will also be actively seeking out those whose actions bring shame to us. We contacted Mr Eden’s representatives when these messages first emerged in April but they declined to share further details. We urge them to reconsider so we can take action, and in the meantime, we appeal to anyone who has information about such behaviour to make contact.”

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Mark Rawley added: “My plan for reform in the Met is already under way. I will be ruthless in rooting out those corrupting officers and staff, including racists and misogynists, from our organisation. I have taken over as the leader of an organisation that has been far too weak in taking on those who undermine the honest and dedicated majority who determinedly serve the public. That will change and I will continue to seek out those, from both within and outside the Met, with that constructive anger who can help us reform.”