Emmerdale spoilers follow.

Emmerdale's 50th anniversary celebrations are set to kick off next week, culminating in the hour-long special on October 16, and starts on an emotional note as Faith Dingle (Sally Dexter) begins her final farewell.

Cain discovers his mom alone in her bedroom during her last moments, quickly realising the gravity of the situation and calling his wife Moira and sister Chas to come to her bedside to ease her passing and say their goodbyes.

Jeff Hordley, who plays Cain, opened up to TV Times about the heartbreaking scenes which will resonate with many viewers.

Photo credit: ITV

Related: 12 huge Emmerdale spoilers for next week

"He does the most lovely, human thing that anybody can do in that situation, which is to just sit with Faith as she passes away. It's a really lovely moment. They speak about the wonderful time they had the day before, where the Dingles create a special 'day at the seaside' for Faith.

"It was beautifully written, so I found it easy to connect with the words and emotions. Plus, we were saying goodbye to Sally, who is an inspiration and is going to leave a big hole in our hearts."

Though the moment is poignant, the events could lead to tension for Cain and Moira should he learn of his wife's knowledge of Faith's intention of assisted death.

"She's taken a big risk keeping another secret from her husband, and tries to talk Faith out of it," Natalie J. Robb said of her character. "But Moira overhears Faith telling Zak she's had the perfect day, and she realises she's going to go through with it. Moira adores Faith and, regardless of her feelings and views, doesn't want her to die alone. If Cain found out, I think Moira hopes he would understand and that their marriage is strong enough to survive the impact."

Photo credit: ITV

Related: Emmerdale boss reveals green changes show made to shock storm storyline

Despite Robb's hopes that the fan favourite couple's "genuine love" will see them through any challenges, the actors teased that there is much more drama ahead for them as the fallout of the anniversary week continues.

Story continues

"After the sadness of Faith's passing, it doesn't end there for Moira. There is going to be a lot more drama," Robb said, while Hordley promised: "This is our anniversary month and there is a big ending to it, with a massive impact on Cain and Moira's lives..."

Emmerdale airs on weeknights at 7.30pm on ITV, and streams on the ITV Hub.

Read more Emmerdale spoilers on our dedicated homepage .

If you would like more information or support about living with cancer or treatment, please click here for guidance from Breast Cancer Now , or click here to learn more from Stand Up to Cancer .

You Might Also Like