One thing Negroes do extremely well at, worldwide, is murder. They have no problem and apparently no compunction against killing each other.

The average IQ of African Negroes is 70. This is a continent-wide average, with one small nation, Equatorial Guinea having an average IQ of only 58 and 19 others at 69 or less.

In the early days of modern African exploration, when Europeans were risking the diseases and many dangers of venturing far into the African jungles and discovering mineral wealth, some European leaders saw the chance of creating little empires for themselves and their nations, and sent in troops to simply take over areas they marked off on maps, call them Colonies, and start building towns that grew into cities while they busily converted the jungle natives into farmers and soldiers.

Belgium was one such nation. The Belgians took over an area that had been two separate areas, one held by the larger Hutu tribe and the other by the smaller Tutsi tribe. The two peoples were separated by more than name, the Hutus were short, heavy set and darker skinned than the Tutsis, who were tall and slender.

The Belgians forced these two tribes to live under one banner, the Belgian flag, and one nationality, which they named Rwanda, when they were separate peoples and basically enemies. To make things worse, the Belgians liked the minority Tutsis better and gave them most of the leadership positions.

After Belgian Colonialism came to an end there and Rwanda became independent, the Hutus decided to get rid of their Tutsi leaders and take over, and they did this simply by getting out their machetes and whatever guns and ammo they had and set about killing all the Tutsis. It wasn’t hard to tell a Tutsi from a Hutu considering the physical differences, and by the time the killing spree ended, somewhere between 800,000 and a million people had been hacked and shot to death, most of them Tutsis. Estimates vary, of course, because records were destroyed and the witnesses who would talk were among the dead.

One of the biggest reasons given for this genocide of blacks against blacks is their low average I.Q., but no one wants to mention the other and much bigger reason they slaughter each other.

Negroes are violent. They lived in jungles. They had to fight off lions and other predators all their lives and fight each other for food and territory. Killing is part of their nature. This is why, even today, in modern cities, they kill each other so casually. They’re stupid to begin with and they don’t think before they act, and acting to kill is instinctual.

Native Americans lived similar lifestyles. They were brutal and violent people, the primary difference between them and Negroes is their higher level of intelligence. That’s not the reason they aren’t violent today like the Negroes still are, though. We killed off most of the Native American population during the years when we took over the land, and the ones we killed were mostly the ones who fought us. The survivors are the ones who went meekly to the reservations. We simply wiped out the violent strains.

Now I look at Globalism, it’s goals, and Africa and the stupidity and violence of the Negro inhabitants, and I wonder how the Globalists plan to get rid of them all. For surely they must be planning it.

One thing about Africa, it’s always good for yet another horrible disease to spring up out of nowhere that kills everyone who gets it.