The UK's MLRS fleet has been thrust into the limelight after several units were donated to Ukraine and its performance on the battlefield. Credit: UK Ministry of Defence/Crown copyright

The UK will upgrade nine of its M270 MLRS fleet to the A2 variant, as part of an ongoing recapitalisation of the fleet, which could also be doubled in size from its current number of around 40 vehicles.

Free Buyer's Guide Leading Guide to Military and Special Purpose Vehicles (Land Platforms) for the Land Defence Industry The document includes detailed information on the manufacturers and suppliers and their products, along with contact details, to inform your purchasing decision. by Army Buyers Guide Enter your details here to receive your free Buyer's Guide. Please enter a work/business email address Country United Kingdom United States Afghanistan Åland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands Colombia Comoros Congo Congo, The Democratic Republic of The Cook Islands Costa Rica Cote D"ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (Malvinas) Faroe Islands Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guernsey Guinea Guinea-bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and Mcdonald Islands Holy See (Vatican City State) Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Korea, Democratic People"s Republic of Korea, Republic of Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People"s Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao Macedonia, The Former Yugoslav Republic of Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Micronesia, Federated States of Moldova, Republic of Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territory, Occupied Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russian Federation Rwanda Saint Helena Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and The Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and The South Sandwich Islands Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Taiwan, Province of China Tajikistan Tanzania, United Republic of Thailand Timor-leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe Download free Buyer's Guide By clicking the Download Free Buyer's Guide button, you accept the terms and conditions and acknowledge that your data will be used as described in the Army Buyers Guide privacy policy By downloading this Buyer's Guide, you acknowledge that we may share your information with our white paper partners/sponsors who may contact you directly with information on their products and services.



Visit our privacy policy for more information about our services, how we may use, process and share your personal data, including information on your rights in respect of your personal data and how you can unsubscribe from future marketing communications. Our services are intended for corporate subscribers and you warrant that the email address submitted is your corporate email address. Thank you.Please check your email to download the Buyer's Guide.

Prior to the outbreak of the Ukraine-Russia war following the 24 February invasion, such a development might not have gained the attention that it does today, with long-range artillery and guided munitions considered perhaps the most dominant force on the battlefield.

The M270A2 standard will see a new engine fitted and a redeveloped cabin, which will be configured in much the same way as the equally renowned M142 High Mobility Artillery Rockets System launchers.

The MLRS launcher unit comprises an M270 launcher loaded with 12 rockets, packaged in two six-rocket pods. The launcher, which is mounted on a stretched Bradley chassis, is a self-loading and self-aiming system.

Without leaving the enclosed cab, the crew of three (driver, gunner, and section chief) can fire up to 12 MLRS rockets in fewer than 60 seconds.

The US Army is also a significant operator of the M270 MLRS platform, embarking on an extensive modernisation effort of its fleet in 2018. Large numbers of inactive units are held at the Red River boneyard in Texas. Credit: US Army

Manufacturer Lockheed Martin, which produced both launcher vehicles and corresponding munitions, will assist the UK in the A2 upgrade process. The upgrades were announced earlier this year as part of a $32m programme, expected to be completed by 2026, although the exact number was not disclosed at the time.

A Lockheed Martin official, speaking at AUSA 2022 in Washington, DC, confirmed to Army Technology that nine UK M270 launcher units would be upgraded to the A2 variant, although declined to say whether the rest of the country’s fleet would also benefit from the process.

The UK is also known to be seeking ways to increases the size of its M270 fleet, and with no new vehicles being produced by Lockheed Martin, additional vehicles would have to be sought from current operators. The US maintains a sizeable stock of surplus unserviceable M270A0 MLRS launchers at its Red River boneyard, which were also utilised by the US Army’s own M270 fleet upgrade programme.

Global artillery systems booming

The global artillery systems market is forecast to reach $6.8bn in 2032, driven by rising military spending and ever-more advanced platforms, according to recent GlobalData analysis. The sector is forecast to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 2.7% over the next decade.

GlobalData’s new report, ‘Artillery Systems Market Size and Trend Analysis, Key Programs, Competitive Landscape and Forecast, 2022-2032,’ revealed that the key trends driving the demand for these systems over the next decade will be the modernisation initiatives undertaken by military forces to replace their aging artillery systems with advanced ones.

Regional conflicts and uncertainty brought about as a result of the ongoing war in Ukraine are also factors in the sector’s growth, it was revealed.

Rithik Rao, aerospace and defence associate analyst at GlobalData, stated: “Artillery systems are considered a relatively cost-effective option to meet defence requirements, due to their relative mobility and ability to produce high volumes of concentrated and sustained fire, with decent accuracy. Their utility in conflict can be seen by their deployment to border areas between India and China and use in the Armenia-Azerbaijan conflict in 2020 and 2022.”

The effectiveness of artillery and long-range guided munitions to dominate in the fields of Ukraine has firmed up decisions within national procurement programmes to heavily invest in such capabilities, which can serve both an offensive and defensive purpose.

Integrating these systems with the information gathered from various intelligence and surveillance platforms, sensors and satellites, shared through network linked nodes will increase the effectiveness and accuracy of these weapons. For instance, the US Army has developed the Joint Effects Targeting System, which relies on an sensor technology to relay more precise targeting data to artillery command.

Similarly, the UK is upgrading its M270B1 MLRS variants to support an increased engagement range of up to 150km.

Rao concludes: “Extended range capabilities and incorporation of advanced fire control and precision guidance kits have improved accuracy to within 10 metres in all weather conditions. With the changing nature of warfare and the growing demand for precision arms to support troops while minimising collateral damage, artillery systems have become an ideal choice for both land and naval forces.”

Related Companies