A grenade exploded on Wednesday evening in Kigali, injuring at least seven, the evening of the proclamation of the crushing victory of outgoing head of state Paul Kagame in the presidential election, announced the spokesman of the Rwandan police .

A grenade was thrown Wednesday in the city center of the capital, Captain Eric Kayiranga told AFP.

"It happened during rush hour, around 7:00 p.m. (2:00 p.m. in Montreal), and not far from the bus station," he explained.

"There were at least seven injured, including two children, the police have started their investigation," said the spokesman, who reported the arrest of "three suspects".

"I heard an explosion," a young man told AFP as he left the hospital with a bandage on his face. “I found myself on the ground, I tried to get up but I couldn't”.

"I counted at least twenty wounded," said Steve Terril, an independent American journalist, who was nearby at the time of the explosion.

“We filled two pickups (with injured people), and there were still some left. A woman had lost an eye. All those who were loaded into the vehicles were still conscious,” according to this witness.

This incident comes the very evening of President Kagame's triumphant victory in the presidential election, with 93% of the vote.

Between February and May, Kigali, considered until then as one of the safest capitals in Africa, had been the scene of three grenade attacks, which had left at least four people dead and around fifty injured.

These attacks each time targeted very busy areas of the city at a peak hour. None of them had been claimed.

The authorities initially attributed them to Interahamwe militiamen who participated in the 1994 genocide, before accusing the former army chief of staff, General Faustin Kayumba Nyamwasa, exiled in South Africa and victim on June 19 of a mysterious assassination attempt.

These attacks, along with other incidents, had largely contributed to increasing the tension in the run-up to the presidential election on August 9, which however passed off without a hitch.

Without a rival or any real opposition, President Kagame was re-elected as head of the country for a second seven-year term. He has ruled Rwanda since he put an end to the genocide of the Tutsi in July 1994, at the head of the rebellion of the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), which has become the party that still controls all levels of political life today. .

Fractures have appeared in recent years within the English-speaking Tutsi elite of the RPF (from the Ugandan diaspora), with the flight into exile of the former head of the secret services Patrick Karegeya in 2007, then that of General Nyamwasa in last February.

Several high-ranking officers, key figures in the regime, have also been arrested, officially accused of corruption or embezzlement.