This Saturday, September 14, one person was killed and eight others injured by the explosion of a grenade in a market in Kigali. She had been thrown Friday evening during an attack. According to the police, it would not have detonated until 24 hours later. These events come as the legislative campaign ended on Saturday. Voting takes place on Monday. On Saturday evening, the Rwandan Minister of Foreign Affairs reacted, accusing the opposition in exile, in cahoots with the FDLR, of being behind the attacks which regularly affect the country.

There were simply two grenades for the same attack, and not two attacks. This was explained by the police on Saturday, after a new explosion occurred in a Kigali market in the early afternoon, killing one and injuring eight.

According to the police spokesperson present at the scene, this grenade would have indeed been thrown by individuals at the same time as that of the day before at the same place, which had already caused one death and several injuries. The second grenade would have remained stuck on the roof of the market and would not have detonated until Saturday.

This is not the first time that attacks have taken place as an election deadline approaches in Rwanda. In 2010, before the presidential election, several attacks left a total of four dead and around fifty injured. Then similar attacks took place in March and July, killing four.

If the Rwandan authorities had remained silent after the attack on Friday, this Saturday, however, in a press release, the Rwandan Minister of Foreign Affairs targeted Rwandan dissidents exiled in South Africa, who, according to her, were allied with the militia. Hutu of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), which rages in the east of the DRC. For Louise Mushikiwabo, they are behind these attacks.

Even if for her, Rwanda is alongside the international community to bring peace to the region, the minister was threatening, declaring: “We will not let these networks foment attacks in Rwanda with impunity”.