(New York) – Rwanda's international partners and the UN Secretary-General should call for transparent and credible investigations into the recent deaths and disappearances of opposition members when they meet with President Paul Kagame . Kagame is due to speak on September 24 before the 74th General Assembly of the United Nations.

The latest victim in Rwanda was stabbed to death on September 23. Around 9 p.m., two unidentified men killed Syldio Dusabumuremyi, national coordinator of the unaccredited United Democratic Forces (FDU)-Inkingi party, while he was working at the store in Shyogwe health center in Muhanga district, Southern Province, his party announced.

“Rwanda is seen internationally as a model in the areas of law and order, but we are witnessing a wave of brazen and violent attacks against members of the opposition, which go unpunished” , said Lewis Mudge, Central Africa director at Human Rights Watch. “The contrast is striking. »

At least three other FDU-Inkingi members have died or disappeared in Rwanda over the past year. Authorities have failed to conduct transparent and credible investigations and hold those responsible to account.

The Rwanda Investigation Bureau (RIB) posted on Twitter a confirmation of the killing of Dusabumuremyi by two unidentified people on September 24 and announced that it had arrested two suspects. On September 14, Kagame delivered a speech at the congress of his party, the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF). Speaking in Kinyarwanda, he said: “These people I pardoned who were in prison, now they are screaming...Let them go, they may well go and die somewhere else...they should not slow down our development...”

Kagame was most likely referring to FDU-Inkingi President Victoire Ingabire, who was released from prison in September 2018 after President Kagame granted amnesty to 2,000 detainees, including her. She had served 8 years of a 15-year prison sentence for conspiracy to undermine established power as well as genocide denial after attempting to run in the 2010 presidential election.

Since then, there has been an increase in the number of suspicious deaths and disappearances among his colleagues. In July, Eugène Ndereyimana, a member of the FDU-Inkingi, was reported missing by his colleagues who saw that he had not arrived at a meeting in Nyagatare, in the Eastern Province of Rwanda. In March, Anselme Mutuyimana, Victoire Ingabire's assistant, was found dead in a forest in northwestern Rwanda, his body showing signs of strangulation. Although the RIB has announced that it is looking into both cases, no results of the investigation have been released or made public.

In October 2018, FDU-Inkingi deputy leader Boniface Twagirimana “disappeared” from his prison cell in Mpanga, southern Rwanda. He had been charged, along with several other party members, with threatening state security and was last seen in the custody of the authorities.

Authorities rarely attempted to hide their approval of incidents in which the opposition was targeted. Sometimes they even openly welcomed these violent killings. This month, the South African judiciary issued arrest warrants for two Rwandans believed to be linked to the Rwandan government's involvement in the murder of Colonel Patrick Karegeya, a prominent critic of the regime. found dead in his hotel room in Johannesburg on January 1, 2014. At the time, Paul Kagame came close to endorsing the killing of Karegeya in a public address: "Anyone still alive who might conspire against Rwanda, whoever he or she is, will pay the price... Whoever he or she is, it's a matter of time. »

“Rwanda's partners and donors should ask questions about the fate of people who try to criticize the government or its policies,” said Lewis Mudge. “Without this, opponents or critics of the state will likely continue to be found dead or missing. »