NYANZA — All but two, of the 15 victims of a motor accident that involved the buses carrying some members of Huye district Itorero-cultural troupe-last week, have been discharged from Kabyayi hospital.

Speaking during a provincial security meeting held at the Provincial headquarters on Monday December 31, the Mayor of Huye district, Aimable Twagiramutara said that only two women were still admitted pending medical examination.

“The two still await test results conducted by doctors because of what is suspected to have been internal body injuries,” said Twagiramutara.

“All the victims were treated under the Mutuelle de sante-health insurance scheme as they all had cards,” added the Mayor.

The accident occurred on Friday December 28, when a group of Itorero members traveling in a bus convoy led by a Police patrol car collided with each other after the advance truck stopped suddenly near Munini, along the Kigali-Butare highway.

The cause of the accident was not promptly established, but the regional police commander, Chief Superintendent Simon Mukama has ruled out reckless driving as the cause of the accident.

“Drivers of vehicles in the convoy can not be blamed for the accident.

We had put in place measures to protect the travellers in the convoy including putting a Police cop in every bus,” said Mukama.

“The lead patrol car reduced speed because a military truck in the opposite direction seemed to occupy the entire road.

Other drivers in the convoy did not realise this; and subsequently hit other vehicles from behind. In the process a bus belonging to Volcano express swerved off the road injuring a number of people,” explained the police chief.

Meanwhile, officials attending the meeting called upon district authorities to use the Itorero initiative to fight the Genocide ideology that has tainted the province over time.

According to Police sources, Genocide ideology-related crimes increased in the year 2007 compared to the previous year.

The Genocide ideology is manifested mainly through menacing remarks directed to Genocide survivors, killing of survivors and Gacaca witnesses and other acts geared towards derailing the Gacaca process.

Speaking during the meeting, Brig. Gen. Mubarak Muganga, the RDF 301 brigade commander, called on district leaders to remain vigilant and report any cases of insecurity; largely because the security situation in the neighbouring Burundi is still volatile.

The meeting was chaired by the Governor, Fidele Ndayisaba, and attended by mayors of all districts in the Province. Other participants included members of Genocide survivors’ associations.