The Rwanda Defence Forces (RDF) has condemned the shooting dead of four people by a soldier at a night club. Seven others were injured.

The incident took place on Sunday at around 4am at Hunters Sport, a night club in Gisuma Cell, Byumba Sector, in Gicumbi District, according to Police.

The suspect was identified as Private Théogene Munyembabazi.

“RDF deeply regrets and strongly condemns the killing and injuring of innocent people that occurred in Gicumbi District, Northern Province,” a statement released by the RDF yesterday reads in part.

The press release, signed by Major René Ngendahimana, the Deputy Defence and Military Spokesperson, adds that the criminal act violated RDF’s well “known ethos and discipline.”

“The Military Prosecution has immediately started investigating the case. Once investigations are concluded, the suspect, who is under arrest will be prosecuted,” the statement adds.

“The RDF extends its heartfelt condolences to the aggrieved families and friends of those killed and injured during the unfortunate incident”.

How it happened

Sources say it all started when the suspect wanted to dance with a girl, Flavia Kayitesi, who was in the company of her boyfriend but she refused prompting the suspect to slap her.

Kayitesi’s boyfriend intervened and fought the soldier thereby escalating the conflict.

Revellers combined efforts and  threw the soldier out but the latter returned to his camp and came back armed with a gun which he used to shoot indiscriminately  into the crowd killing four, including Kayitesi and injuring seven others.

 The others who died were identified as Emile Nsengiyumva, Placide Niyigena and Assouman Murangira.

Superintendent Emmanuel Hitayezu, the Northern Province Regional Police Spokesperson, said the suspect arrived at the night club already drunk and continued drinking through the night.

Hitayezu urged owners of night clubs and other public places to put in place adequate security and have both accessible entry and exit points to facilitate escape in case of danger.

Gicumbi District mayor Alexandre Mvuyekure, during a security meeting he convened on Sunday morning, urged local residents to share information in a timely manner, adding that the incident could have been avoided had security organs been informed on time.

The injured were rushed to Kigali Central Teaching Hospital but efforts to know their condition were futile by press time.

