* One person dead, 30 wounded, police say

* Attacks occur within half an hour across capital * Police arrest two suspects

(Recasts with number injured, arrests, more quotes)

KIGALI, Feb 20 (Reuters) - Rwandan police arrested two men on Saturday in connection with three grenade attacks in the capital Kigali the previous night that killed one person and wounded 30.

Police spokesman Eric Kayiranga said the motive for the attacks, two in the town centre and one at the international bus station, was still not known.

He said, however, that genocide ideology remained prevalent in Rwanda 16 years after 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus were slaughtered and that could be an explanation for the blasts.

All three explosions happened within a half hour, although Kayiranga said it was not clear if they were coordinated.

“Three grenades exploded in Kigali ... resulting in the death of one person and the injury of 30. Among them were women and children,” he told Reuters by telephone.

“Two suspects are being held by the national police. We are still investigating what was behind this.”

Many grenades and other weapons are left over from lengthy conflicts in the Great Lakes region of central Africa and are often used to settle scores.

At a university hospital on Friday night, relatives told Reuters four of the wounded men were seriously wounded. One man had shrapnel wounds to his ear and nose.

A dead man lay in a pool of blood on the hospital floor.

“There is a possibility of it being FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda), or criminals, or an accident. It can be any of that. We can’t confirm that for now,” Kayiranga said.

The FDLR is an ethnic Hutu rebel group based in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, whose leaders were responsible for the genocide.

While generally there is little crime in Rwanda there are occasional bombings. A string of grenade attacks killed four people in the last two months, including witnesses in a genocide court case.

Last year, Rwanda destroyed 30,248 small arms and 70 tonnes of ordnance, including 1,332 hand grenades, according to the Mines Advisory Group, an international demining organisation.